  Declassification authority derived
  from FBI Automatic Declassification

NAAN
  Guide, issued May 24, 2007.

  c  .S.  o  Department of Justice

  - OH
  7

  7900
  sseip
  g
  fe}
  # 8SBD/

  Bureau
  v68Es  m
  ae
  =j

  a

  if
  >
  r
  a
  m
  SY3.LYVNOGWSH
  igation
  fo}
  fe)
  rs)
  oD
  n
  LSLPLZLILLIg  fo}
  m
  2
  |
  m
  a

  Field Office Criminal Investigative  eLUN|OA

  and Administrative Files
  JOQUINN

  Armed and Dangerous

  DO NOT DESTROY

  ELSUR

  Escape Risk
  Financial Privacy Act

See also Nos.
  BED,  WITNESSES Sarpy To
  DAY.  pA.er
  PHENOMENA PRRANTZ
  ATION FILTER
  S HAD REPORTED SEE  fi)
  ING THE

  AND THE U.S. WEATHER he
  yy
  e
  SESy  AIRPORTS
  ETS CR WEATHER BA  LLOONS ALOFT at ue
  Parp TEN  40  Pom.  AND  11330  Pim.,  FILTER  }
  8/9=-¢ 0253p

  T°  ice
  AUB 12ge‘ORD
  y ALIC
¥QAUG12  Wye5  1958
  —
  DR,  \|_  Schmidt, 48, an ex-Nebras-|
  S  ?  is n and  now a Californja
  (@)  Sac  |  gain dealer, was questionfd
  |b:  Air Force inyestigatoys
  Trace Fou  ‘frpm the Continental Air De-|
  'fénse Command. Oil fouhd|
  \near the alleged landing spot

‘AF. Checks Schmidt; |offiedtheasspace ship was identi-
  ordinary but will be)
  ‘tested by the University of
|  Kearney Amused  Nebraska.

  other such “SoRCe TERT  got giving Kearney a sensational
  Tales of flying saucers and  While the Schmidt tale was

  an  unofficial raspberry conversation piece, most of|
  Wednesday  night from  an  the talk was of a skeptical |
| Air Force official.  | variety:  |
|  A top official of the Air |  Newsmen Busy
‘Technical Intelligence Cen-  “Everybody  downtown  OMAHA WORLD-HERALD
  ter at Wright-Patterson Air _seems to think it’s a big joke,”  OMAHA, NEBRASKA
  Force Base in Ohio told the | one business man said.  |  11-7-57
  Dayton Journal-Herald his in-  A Kearney clothier put up
  have  found  no  SUNRISE EDITION
  yestigators  a sign advertising “space ship
‘evidence in the past 10 years  specials.” A window sign in
that flying saucers are real. a  car agency announced:
  He  said  5,700  reported| “Space Ships Tuned Up.”
  sightings  were  investigated  The  Kearney car-rental
\between 1947 and 1957. Not \operator  reported  business
  a single landing impression,| was so good all of his cars
  footprint, saucer or little | were in use. They were being
  green man was found.  rented by visiting newsmen.
  , Investigation Goes On  ‘'  Presence of the newsmen.
  In:  aan  Neb.
ie di  tory ol
  tel  isit,  with
  | crew of a space ship near the
  city Tuesday was still under
  investigation, officials said.
  ‘Thp
  pace-Ship S
  World-Herald’s News Service,  i
  Kearney, Neb.—A  grain
  Wuyer who  said  he saw  a
  space ship Tuesday in a
|  field near here and chatted
|  amicably with its six occu-
  pants had more pleasant
  dealings with the visitors
  from outer space than with
  skeptical authorities.
  The  sensational  report
  by R. O, Schmidt, about 50,
  of Bakersfield, Cal., which
  topped  a  host  of  reports
  across the nation Tuesday
  of seeing mysterious flying
  objects,  had  these  conse-
  quences:
  —State Penitentiary rec-
  ords showed a man of* the
  same name served a term
  for embezzlement from  vorld-Herald News Service Photo
  Scotts Bluff County in the  Schmidt (left) and Kearney Police Chief Nelson... In
  1930's, Scotts Bluffs Coun-  “heart-to-heart” talk.  OMAHA WORLD-HERALD
  ty Sheriff Steve Warrick  sibe VIEW
  OMAHA, NEBRAS
  Sid he talked to Schmidt  DuTSIDE
  by  phone and was convinced  11-6-57
  “saw nothing.”  Sl EDITION
  —He  turned  down  a
  chance to take  a  lie-
  detector test.”
  —Schmidt was kept up
  most of the night for
  questioning. He finally
  asked for an attorney.
  Ward Minor of Kearney  LENGTH: APPROX. 100 FEET
  was named.
  —Wednesday  forenoon
  he went to the scene of the  FLOOR PLAN
  space ship’s landi  with  INSIDE
  investigators from the Con-
  tinental Air Defense Com-
  mand at Colorado Springs,
  Colo., Kearney Police Chief
  Thurston Nelson and Buf-
  falo  County Attorney
  Kenneth Gotobed. They
  said Schmidt's story “ap-
  peared to be weakening.”
  —Oil drippings on the
  ground from the space
  machine were being ana-  The Schmidtnik .,. As described by the grain buyer.
  lyzed at Kearney State
  College. Investigators  light when, white-faced and  turn around, Near the  CED

  said the “mysterious  shaken,  he  appeared  in  Platte River he saw what
  1 NOV 22 1957
  green oil’ closely resem~  Kearney Tuesday and asked  appeared to be a wrecked

  led that in a! partially-  to see a minister. Taken to  balloon.  As he neared i
  emptied can of commer-  police, he told this story:  Schmidt said, his car  en}
  cial auto oil found in the  Tuesday he inspected a  gine conked out.
  ick of Schmidt's BS and 2  field  of  milo  about  two  Schmidt said he got oui
  miles south and a mile east
  H ar Uae site of the “land-
  arly-empty can  Toun  and walked toward the ma-
  of Kearney. When ready to.  chine. Proximity revealed —

  i ‘Schenidt’s story came io
  leave he  drove down a side
  road seeking a place to
  it to be a translucent, ci-
  ‘Spoke German’
  gar-shaped device about  |  The  ship  occupants
  one hundred feet long, 31  talked among themselves in
  fget wide and about 14feet  jl gh German, whic
  igh. Schmidt  said  tha!  Sqhmidt says he under.
  yhen he was 25 or 30 feet  stgnds to a limited extent.
  way,  two  men  got  out  |Ose man spoke excellent
  and  waved  what  looked  English and interpreted for
  like a flashlight.
  the others,  |
  “I coultin't move. 1 don't  Schmidt  said  the  inter-
  Know whether I was just  preter told him  repeatedly
  afraid or what, but it was  he had nothing to fear. The
  like  being  paralyzed,”  he  visitors refused to answer |
  said.  any questions  but said he  |
  ‘In Business Suits’ -  would “find out all about  |
  Schmidt said the men,  /it in @ couple of weeks.”
  _  When repairs were com
  dressed in business suits,  -  |
  searched him for weapons  pleted, Schmidt said he was |
  gated to leave but was told
  then remarked that as long
  as they» were going to be  e would be unable
  to start _
  his car until the machine  |
  there for some time “you
  had mine ah i
  might as weil come in and  |
  see things for a few min.  ‘Disappeared’
  utes.”  ’  &  | Outside the machine,  |
  Inside the machine were  Schmidt said, he turned to”
  two other men  and  two watch as the fans started
  in motion without a sound,
  women  working on wires
  He said the machine lifte
  and instruments. The de-  d
  vice had a fan at each end. about one hundred or two
  By a strange coincidence  “hun dred feet into the air
  one of the crewmen “looked  and disappeared,
  exactly like”  a  hotel  ac-)
  “It jist blended inté th
  guaintance with whom he
  —like
  >

  has been watching televi-

/  anes ceupanty |
(sign  programs,

  whnted to m  acu: si
  is eran on andD2
  led to the
  ni
  ithout moving.  “leit
  Command was keeping watch ported objects may. be_some-|
  s0-farwith no results—andjthing from another‘planet.
  i
  that specially  li
  qualified ae
  inves-| “Assuming they are real,” he
  - 5 nce smiamal ya ceeencd
  tigators  had  been’ assigned toweapons  made  on  earth  or
  look into the reports.  {are  interplanetary.”  Any  na-
  For  several years  the  Air/tion with the secret, he added,
  Force has checked all reports) Would by now have abandoned,
  of  unidentified  flying objects,|Conventional  aircraft  or  mis-
  Investigators work under the) siles,
  Air Defense Command at Col-/ Cosmic Energy
  orado Springs, Colo., and re-
  port to the Air Technical In-| “Tt looks as though they are
  interplanetary,” Keyhoe said.
  telligence Center.
  He said one source of pow-
  Judging from past findings, er
  for such reported objects:
  the chances are 50-1 the Air|
  could be cosmic ray energy.
  Force will offer a humdrum)  Some of the  citizens, peace
  explanation  for  the  current/ officers  and  servicemen  who
  sightings.  reported sighting mystery ob-
  During the’ first half of this jects in
  the Southwest since
  year, the Air Force said, only the
  weekend said the objects
  1.9 per cent of the 250 report- stalled
  auto  engines  and
  ed sightings of flying saucers caused
  radios to fade,
  and other fantastic aerial ob-|  James Stokes, an engineer
  jects have wound up in the at the
  Air Force missile de-
  “unknown” category,  velopm  ent  center  at  Alama:
  |Air Force Skeptical  | gordo. N. M., reported 10 autos
  were stalled Monday on a des-
  And the Air Force said firm- ert highwa
  y.between Alama-
 ly—though not all flying ‘sau-) gordo and
  the White. Sands
jcer buffs may agree—that it (N. M.) Proving Grounds.
|doesn’tbelieve even the 1.9  He reported seeing a soundper cent residue is made up: less, “brilliant colored
  egg.
i the things you read about shaped object” which flitted
  in science fiction  magazines.  erratically across, the country-
'  Balloons, aircraft and such side and left  a sort of heat
  astronomical sights as meteor- wave, “like radiation from a
  ites and bright stars account giant sun lamp,” in its wake,
  “at least  to  the  Air  Force's
  Device Sought  |
  Associated Pross
  official  satisfaction—for  al-
  most four-fifths  of the  sigh  Leonard Hardlund, chief en-|  J) G. Kirby of Dallas made
  ings.  gineer for the National Inven-|  this  photo  of  a  diamond
  The director of a private o1  tors  Council  in  Washington,  shaped  object  flying
  |
ganization  set  up  to  inve:  said a device that could stall
  through  the  sky  while  he
tigate flying saucers and suc!  autos or other mechanical
  equipment  and his family were driving
said he couldn’t evaluate ai  was.  one  of  the
this point the current rash of things the armed forces would  near  Amarillo,  Tex.  in
reported sightings.  like to see developed,  August,  1956.  The  photo
  But retired Marine Maj,|  But Hardlund said he knew  was turned over to the FBI
  of no research in this country
Donald ©, Keyhoe, director of  and  has just  been  released
  aimed at producing such a dethe National Investigations  after  intensive  study.  The
  vice.
Committee  on  Aerial  Phe.  wo teen-age girls reported  Air  Force  described  the
nufana__added, that the re.
  seeing a mysterious object in  glow as
  ~Tadiation—vapor.”
  the sky over Annapolis, Md.,
  last week.
  Tean  Hunt,  13,  and  Sylvia
  Fowler, 15, said. they saw
  an egg-shaped object which
  glowed like a neon light, They)
  spotted it while trick-or-treat-|
  ing with Jean’s two younger
  Sisters on Halloween night in
  Primrose Acres, a housing de.
  velopment on the outskirts
  of
  Annapolis.
  Jean said the girls became
  frightened and ran home but
  no  one  would  believe  their
  story until: weekend newspa.
  per accounts told of a myster
  obzset_siohted in, Texas,
  >
  -  OF THE AIR’ FORCE  »
  Office  of  Public: Information
  Washington  25,  D,  C.

  U. S. Air Force Summary of Events and Information
  Concerning  the  Unidentified  Flying  Objéct  Program

  The  Air  Force’  feels  avery definite  obligation  to  identify  and
 analyze  things  that  happen  in  ‘the  air  that'may have  in  them  menace  to
 the  United  States  and,  because  of  that  feeling  of  obligation  and  pur-
 sult  of  that  interest,  the  Air  Force  established  an  activity  known  as
 the  Unidentified Flying Object  Program°
  .  :

  This  program was:  éstablished  in’1947 when  unidentified  flying
 objects  were  being  reported  in various parts  of  the  United  States,
 The  reports  of. sightings  reached  a  peak  of  1,700  in  1952  and  dropped
 to a total of 429 in 1953,  During the  first nine  months of 1954 only
 254 sightings were reported,
  A
  From a survey of the volume of sightings received  by the Air
Force, it-has been determined that over 80 percent are  explainablé  as
being known objects,.  Generally,  sighted  objects  fall  into  the  ¢ategory  of  balloons,  ‘aircraft,  astronomical  bodies,  atmospheric  reflections,  and  birds,  All  reports  of  unidentified  flying  objects  result
from either radar or visual  sightings.

  Explanations pertaining to sightings reported from military and
civilian  radar  facilities  are  as  follows:

  1,  Temperature inversion  reflections  can give  a return on a
radar  scope  that  is  as  sharp
  as  that  received  from an aircraft.
Speeds  of  these  returns  reportedly  range ‘from zero  to  fantastic  rates,
The  "objects" also appear'to move in all directions,  Such  sightings
have  resulted  in  many  fruitless  dntercept efforts.

  To possibly bear out the theory of temperature inversion
reflection is an.incid@ent which occurred in January 1951
  near Oakridge,
Tennessee.:  Two Air Force aircraft attempted to intercept an unidentified "object" and: actually established a radar "lock" on the object.
Their altitude at the time was 7,000 feet,  The unidentified object,
according to their radar, appeared to be at  an elevation of 10 to 25
degrees  from  this  altitude.  Three  passes  were  made  in an  attempt  to
close  on  the  object,  In  each  instance  the  pilots  reported  that.  their
radar led  them first upward and  then down toward a spécifice point  on
the ground,  (One scientifie theory holds that light can be similarly
reflected froma layer of warm air above the earth.  If this proves
to be correct, many visual night sightings could be accounted for, )

  2,  TIonized..clouds have caused Some unidentified radar returns
Thunderstorms are identifiable by radar ‘and radar returns have also
been received from ice formations in the air, balloons, 6round refleetions, frequency interference between other radar stations and windborn objects,  Obviously, such returns are very difficult as identify
especially when they occur during darkness,  ,

  <  MORE
  3. The radar @Brcen has picked up birds tj im-one case a  6
  a
  ,

 flock of ducks,  Flight  interceptions proved  these phenomena.

  An explanation of known types of visual  sightings are as.
 follows:

  1.  Present-day  jet  aircraft,  flying at  great  speeds  and  high
 altitudes,  are  often  mistaken  for;  unknown objects  by the  untrained
 observer,  Sunlight reflections from the polished surfaces of air-~
 eraft can be seen plainly even-when the aircraft itself is too  dis-
 tant to be visible,  The exhaust:of jet. aircraft.emits.a trail  and
 often this is seen rather than the aircraft. itself,:

  2...  Weather balloons account for, a substantial number of/sightings.  These balloons, sent to altitudes. of 40,000 feet.and higher,
are launched from virtually every airfield in the country.  They are
made of rubber or polyethylene, swell as: they gain altitude, have
very good  reflective  qualities,  carry  small  lights,  when.  launched
after dark,  and  can be  seen at  very high altitudes,

  3.  In addition  to  the  ordinary weather  balloon,  huge  90-foot
balloons,  which  sometimes  drift  from coast  to  coast,  are  used  for
upper  air  résearch.  These  balloons  also  have  a  highly  reflective
surface  and  are  visible  at  extreme  altitudes.

  4,  Frequently, unusually bright meteors and planets will cause
a  flurry  of  reports,  sometimes  from relatively experienced  observers,
At certain times  of thé year, Venus, for instance, is low on the
horizon and will  appear to change color and move erratically due to
hazy atmospheric  conditions.  Since the stars are charted and most
of  their  characteristics  known,  many  cases  are  traced  to  them,
Meteors  on  the  other  hand  are  of  rapid  single-direction  movement  and
are  only  visible  for  a few  seconds.  Meteor  activity  is  more’  common
at  certain  times  of  the  year  than  others,  and  reports  of  UFO's  have
shown a  tendency  to  increase  during  these  periods.  ‘

  5.  Some  cases arise  which,  on the  basis  of  information  receives
  ‘
are  of  a  weird  and  peculiar  nature,  The  objects  display  erratic
movements
  .and phenomenal  speeds.  Since  maneuvers  and  speeds  of  this
kind  cannot be  traced directly  to  aircraft,  balloons,  or known  astronomical  sources,  it  is  believed’ that  they  are  reflections  from ob+
jects rather than being objects themselves,  For.example’  suppose
we would hold a mirror in. hand under a light, causing. a reflectio
  n
on the ‘ceiling. Only a slight, quick movement of, the hand would
result  in  erratic  movements  and  phenomenal  spéeds  of’  the  reflected
beam,  Reflections may be projected to  clouds and haze bath from the
ground  and air,  Many things which are  common to the sky have highly
reflective qualities, such as balloons, aircraft, and
  clouds, Accurate speeds are also difficult to determine due to the inabilit
  y
of the reporter to judge distance, angles, and time,

  6,  Brilliant ‘flashing lights that sometimes appear red and
white in color ‘have been reported by observers, This type has been
traced to a new lighting system of commercial airlines and
  military
aircraft,  Atop the tail section of these aircraft highly reflective
red and white flasher type lights have been installed and
  are many
times misinterpreted by the ground observer,

  -2-  MORE
  have been
+  established  from experTénce and  trends  to  measure  @d  attempt to
  determine  the  source  of  UFO's.  Some  of these  are  general  in  nature
Pana are subject to change as new scientific and factual information
  is  received.  It  should  be  remembered  that  any object  viewed  from a
  great  distance  appears  to  be  round.  Nearly  all  the  sightings  reported
  are described as  round and would tend to indicate that most  of the
  objects are at a  greater-distance from the observer than is  generally
  estimated,  ‘i

  Another misconception centers about photographs of unidentified
  flying objects,  At beSt the majority of photographs have proven
  non-conclusive  as  evidence  to  this  program mainly  due  to  type  cameras
  used,  Also,  it  might  be  mentioned  that  because  still  photographs  .can
  be  so  easily  faked,  either  by using  a mock-up  or model  against  a
  legitimate  background,  or  by retouching  the  negative,  they  are  worth-
  less  as evidence,  Innumerable objects,  from ashtrays  to wash basins,
  have been photographed while sailing through the  air.  Many such
  photos have been published without revealing the  true  identity of  the
  objects.  ;  ne

  More attention is given to moving pictures of unidentified fly-
  ing  objects since they are more difficult to retouch,  However, only
  a  very  few  movie-type  films  have  been  received  by  the  Air  Force  and
  they  reveal  only  pinpoints  of  light  moving  across  the  sky.  The  Air
  Force has been unable to  identify the source of these lights because
  the images are too small  to analyze properly.  Since ownership of
  these films remains with  the persons taking them, the Air Force is
  now  in  a  position  to  give  them out.

  The difficulty of evaluating reports of all types is based
  largely upon the lack of basic data surrounding the sightings, The
  drop  in  sightings during 1953 is largely due to  the  increased accuracy
  and  the  completeness of reports being received.  To be  of value, a
  report  should  include  such  basic  data  as size, shape, composition,
  speed,  altitude,  direction,  and  the  maneuver pattern of the objects,
  Without  such  information,  it  is  almost  impossible  to  establish  the
  identity of  the  object  sighted.  In  addition,  a recent  study has  shown
  a direct correlation between the number of sightings  reported and  the
  publicity given to "saucers" by the nation's press,

  The Air Force  took a  further  step in early 1953 by procuring
  Videon cameras for  the  purpose  of photographing this phenomena, These
  cameras  were  distributed  to  various  military  installations,  This  type
  camera  has  two  lenses,  one  of  which  takes  an  ordinary photograph,  and
  the  other has  a diffraction grating which  separates  light  into  its
  component  parts,  This  aids  in  determining  the  composition  of  the  ob-
  ject photographed.  A  small number of photographs  have  been  received
  from  this  camera;  however, only  light  spots  of  no  detail  have  been
  indicated  in the photos  to  date.  As more photographs are  taken by
these observers, it is believed  that  a great deal  of  the  mystery will
be lifted from the program,

  The  Air Force would  like  to  state  that  no  evidence  has  been
received  which  would  tend  to  indicate  that  the  United  States  is  being
observed  by machines from outer space or a foreign govern
  ment, No
object  or particle of an unknown substance has been receive
  d and
  -3-  MORE
no photographs of detail have been produced,.  The photographs on
hand  are,  at  best,  only  large  and  small  blobs  of  light which,  in
mgst  cases,  are  explainable,  :  :

  It may be concluded from the above and from past  experience that
no  new significant trends have developed out of these  cases,  There
was  an  increase  in public  interest  which  occurred  simultaneously  with
the publication of various books and articles on the  subject;  however,
this trend has been noted several times previously.

  In-order to overcome the lack of  basic data, and to standardize
all  reports, a detailed questionnaire  is now submitted. to each person
reporting’an unidentified  aerial  abject.  It  1s  felt  that)  the  information thus  obtained  will  lower  still-more  the  number of  unexplained
sightings.  .  t
  ‘

  For observers who wish to report unidentified aerial objects,
the Air Force would welcome the information.  Attached to this report
is a brief basic summary form,  It would be appreciated if observers
would  send  the  completed  form  to  the  nearest  Air Force  Bases

  If and when new developments  turn up  in  this  program,  the Air
Force  will  keep  the  public  informed.
  PLEASE  SEND  TO  YOUR NEAREST  AIR  FORCE  BASE

TIME  OF  SIGHTING:

  SIZE:

  SHAPE:

  COMPOSITION:

  SPEED:

  ALTITUDE:

  DIRECTION  OF  TRAVEL:

  MANEUVER  PATTERN:

  COLOR:

  SOUND:

  LENGTH  OF  TIME  OBSERVED:

  SKY CONDITIONS:

  VISIBILITY:

  GROUND  DIRECTION  OF  WIND:

NAME,  AGE,  MAILING  ADDRESS  OF  OBSERVER:

REMARKS:  (General desceiption of what  you  saw--use back if necessary)
  <GEORG KLEIN

  ewe ae ON
won 44, ByFL
  EWE  N
  YIN
  By FORSAITH REES
  AUCERS
  Tikdla thete’ are! two. Grpee
  HERE is the “real truth”  fyone
  lying Saucer built to-day=~
  with a diameter of 48ft.
  about Flying Sastcers,  Hien  by  five  jets and  a
  as! told by Georgf/Klein,  larger model with a diameter
  former secret weapons ex-  of 126ft. and 12 jets.
  This, he) says, accounts for
  Be in the German’ War  the rumour that Saucers often
  Production Ministry, and  appear  to  change  size  sud-
  now’  an  engineer  in  denly.
  Switzerland,  Raised wing flaps lift both
  airoraft like a helicopter.  The
  “flying Saucers,” he says,
  big one can keep stationary by
  are top secret weapons of Te
  turning jets down to counter-
  ISA and Russia.
  balance gravity,
  “They are a continuation of
  erman_  wartime  experi-  sl Had oy Johyefron  din
  anada by Jo)  ‘rost, mhittley
  Rents.  +
  colleague of Si
  “Prototype Flying Saucers
  were built in Germany during  have mencheal speeds up| eS  Whitt

  1,500 mph and ee been }in-
  the war. I saw one reach a
  jontgomery, en“Klein.
  |’ spected — by
  height of 40,000 feet in three  eld-Marshal-
  minutes, _ hear  Prague,  in
  1945.”
  Klein  Says  the Russians
  captured a scale pea and top
  technicians  at Breslau,  The
  technicians have  not returned
  to Germany,_
  And | Walter  Micthe,  Vv
  ‘eapon inventor’  and key  than
  if}  Saucer  development,  ie
  ‘est and now wen S id fh
  hited: States,
  Jein ina zurich ptr ving ]
  Are They Hiding Those
"THAT WAS NO AIRPLANE’  S

  Lights Under a Bushel?
  Base 22 times in
By EVERT CLARK
  Mysterious red lights which have flown over the Quantico Marine
  a new type of aircraft
  as
the past six nights were officially explained away today don’t believe
navigation light. But most of the Marines who saw them  still  that’s what
they were.
  In addition,  The  News ran
into what seems to be a deliberate attempt to cover up certain facets of the longest continuous “flying saucer” run in
history.
 The first man to see the light
was Pfc. Norman Viets, 18, of
Greenville, Pa. Since’then, at least
30 other Marines, including half a
dozen officers, have seen it, too.
  On one occasion, sentries reported seeing three lights at once. They
say they have seen the lights drop
straight down, fly straight up and
stand still.
  Even the most’ careful—and
skeptical—observer, the base provost marshal, Maj. D. D. Pomerleau,
admitted the lights had characteristics he never expected to find on
an airliner.
  FIRST SIGHTING
  Pfc. Viets  was  standing  sentry
duty at the Tank Park a few miles
north of Camp Barrett on the southwestern side of the Quantico reservation at 9:05 p. m. Dec. 30 when
he “reported a moving, blinking red
Jight near his post which he could
not explain.”
  The sergeant of the guard, Sergt.
Francis R. Salinder, “investigated
and saw the light but could not explain it.”
  Pfe. Viets told The News the light
first appeared to come straight
toward him over a line of trees about
200 yards to the south of his post.in
  “Tt was abou  t a foot and a half
  “only going about
diameter,” he said,hou
$0 or 15 miles an abou r. ‘Then it foljowed the tree line  t 50 yards to
the right and went dow  n.
  “qt went straight dow  n, all of a
sudden, Fifteen minutes  later it
  pb)  Th
went straight up and moved over  ZZ Eat
  the tank
here towaritd two  shed.
  times after that. It
  i It was S the  Re
  ooSRDED  a  VASHINGTON DAILY
  Gar  NEWSa
  “Tt saw
did  the  same  thing.  “NOT RECO  tex  2  on  Bdit ion
  thing  I ever
  aa est looking g© gine a nois
weird  saw.  148 JAN 12 ad
  no  e and no
There was  !
shape— ijust the light
  ———  oy
  NO SALE
  By the time The News talked  to
Pfc.  Viets  at  Quantico  yesterday,
the airplane navigation light theory
already had been offered. The News
asked  Pfc.  Viets  about  it,  and  he
said:
  “That was no airplane. I first
 thought it might be a weather
 balloon, but it wasn’t. Either way,
 you could have seen the shape.”
  Pfe. Viets and Sergt. Salinder saw
the light again at 10:15 the same
night. Five minutes later they called
in the roving guard from a nearby
guard tower, but the light was gone.

  CONFLICT  Pfc. Bennett (top front) grabbed a butcher knife and said: “It’s land-
  First  reports had  it  that  troops  ing in the tank shed!” Maj. Pomerleau (middle photo) is skeptical,
Were’ sent into the area to look for  but still curious. Pfe. Viets (bottom photo) saw enough to convince
the  lights.  Yesterday  Maj.  A.  B.  him “that was no airplane.”  —News Staff Photos by Gene Thomas
Ferguson, the base information officer, said that report was errone-  with  troops,”  the  official  report  sible  way  to  describe  the  light’s
  says.
ous.  size,  shape  and  intensity  was  to
  “We  did  at  no  time  dispatch  ‘Thirty minutes later, the sergeant
  of the guard saw it again, and at  compare it  to  “the way a  blinking
troops to fight off the invaders or  red traffic light appears to a motorcapture  then  or  welcome  them  8:23 p. m. three lights .were seen.
  (This was New Year's Eve.)  ist as  he pulls  up to  an intersecaboard or anything else,” he said.  At
  9:01 it was seen again, and at 4:20  tion.”
  However, this is what the official
record says:  New  Year's  morning  it  moved  He heard  no  noise  and saw no
  northeast, then south, then north  shape. He said the light was “sharp-
  “A 13-man detail arrived  (at
  and remained “over the tank shed  ly delineated.”
 11:15 p. m., Dec. 30) from Camp
  at an elevation of about 3500 feet.”  “But I have friends and a pro-
 Barrett and made a search of the
 area in which the light was first  That  was the  time Pfc.  Viets  fessional reputation,” he said, “and
  ,  The  search  proved  fruit-  said, “when they saw it come up  as  far as I’m concerned just say
  there and lay under the moon until  it’s an aircraft navigation light.”
  Fifty minutes later Pfc. Viets’ re-  morning.”  Several airlines that fly in and out
lief “reported seeing the same red  Pfc. Viets’ relief of the night be-  of Washington say they began inlight.” Sergt. Salinder saw nothing. fore got so excited he “grabbed a  stalling new lights atop the tails of
  butcher  knife  and  headed  for  the  planes six months ago.  They blink
  HOVERS
  tank  shed  to  help  out  his  troops,”  on and off, are red, and can be seen
  The next night the light was seen  much farther away than older types.
  his barracks mates said.
again, at 6:25 p. m, by a tani  The light came back three times  “Nobody in the barracks knows,”
park sentry and the guard tower. Friday night, once
  Saturday night,  Pfe. Viets said..  “They're just talking
At  7:10,  it  appeared again.  This  five times Sunday night and twice  flying saucers,  that's all, They're
time the sergeant of the guard  last_ night.  talking about men from Mars and
“eame out and checked the area  Maj. Pomerleau said the best pos-  everything else you could name,”
  ———
* emeeneuert  sxneory Bolstere¢——,
  Keyhoe’s inter-planetary theory
  was bolstered by a letter pub-
  lished on the jacket of his book
  afeowitield, and repurtsShish
  divulge the capabilities of our

  SPACE sHlPS
  aircraft,  radar  and  electronic
  M. Chop, former Air  are  classified,  All
  equipment
  Force civilian expert on the  other information with xespect
  saucer project, who now is with  to sightings is a matter of pub-
  the Douglas Aircraft company in  lie record, he said.
  California,  |

  BY EX-MARINE
  Keyhoe maintains, tho,  that
  In_the letter, Chop stated:  the Air Force has refused to re-
  “The Air Force, and its investi-  lease many analyses of sighting
  pative agency, ‘Project Bluebook,’  reports, He points out that the
  are aware of Maj. Keyhoe’s con:  names and locations connected
  clusion that the flying saucers  with the incidents cotild be de-
  are from another planet. The
  Hits AF Stand On  Air Force has never denied that
  this possibility exists. Some of
  leted, if necessary. ~
  Wants Film Released

  Flying Disks  the personnel believe that there  Keyhoe also claims that the
  may be some strange natural!  Air Force should release the
  phenomena completely unknown  final intelligence analysis on
  to us, but that if the apparently  the Utah film. ,
  controled maneuvers reported  In connection with this, Key-
  (This is the last of three arti-  observers  hoe recently sent aytelegram to
  by  many  competent
  cles on the controversial subject  high Air Force officials charging:
  are correct, then the only re-
  of “flying saucers” and their  maining explanation is the inter-  that since the Air Force had im-
  investigation by the Air Force.)  Planetary answer.”  plied that he had misrepresented
  the analysis of the Utah film,
  BY RICHARD REILLY ©  Upon publication of the letter  either he or the Air Force was
  Written on Defense department
  Are the“fiying saucers real—
  yi
  lying.
  stationery—the Air Force chal-  The Times-Herald asked a top
  and if they are, what are they?  Jenged Chop’s claim and said he  Air Force spokesman if Keyhoe
  ‘That, in essence, is the ques-  ‘was merely expressing his per-  had, in fact, misrepresentec the
  tion that faces the Air Force—  sonal opinion.  Utah film analysis. He declined
  and the American public as, well.  Chop  subsequently  admitted  to comment.  |
  Altho it remains unanswered, it  that he was not speaking for  In his telegram — as in his
  has stirred no end of opinions and  the Air Force, but maintained  book—Keyhoe stated:
  theories.  ‘5
  that some of the investigative  “The final analysis proved
  One theory advanced from  personnel had subscribed to the  that the saucer formation could
  time to time is that the saucers  interplanetary theory. He said  not be explained as any known
  are some revolutionary type of  this was based on “personal con-  aircraft or other conventional
  ‘weapon perfected either by this  tacts with these  various  indi  objects.”  |
  country or some other nation.  viduals” and insisted that it was  Gites Conclusions
  The Air Force, however, dep-  “a true statement,”
  recates this possibility. In a re:  The spokesman was asked if
  Charges Cover-Up  this statement were true or false,
  cent statement, it said:
  “The Air Force has stated in  Amplifying his theory that the  He said that, to date, the Air
  saucers come from another  Force has neither affirmed nor
  the past, and reaffirms at the
  present, time, that unexplained  planet, Kehoe claims they could  denied it.
  originate from some other body  eyhoe also contends the anf:
  aerial phenomena are not a se-  yas concluded the objects were
  the  earth’s  solar  system—
  from |
  eret Weapon, missile or aircraft  in
  developed by the United States.  such as Mars or Venus—or
  universe. |
  nqt birds and were nob caus¢d
  None of the three military de-  some other system or  by weather conditions.
  partments nor any other agency|  Kehoe charges that the Air)  pecifically, Keyhoe elaims the
  in the government is conducting|  Force is convinced that the
  experiments, classified or other-  saucers are space ships from |
  wise, with flying objects which  another world, but that it is cov-)
  could be a basis for the reported  ering up because of a fear that
  phenomena.”  such a disclosure would result in
  Weapon Theory Discounted  widespread panic.
  In addition, a highvanking Air  The Air Force, however, in-
  Force officer indicated to the  sists that this is not so—that it  Times Herald
  "Times-Herald that it is «believed  is holding back no important
  impossible the saucers could he  facts from the public,

  parcohietnvalved in the.si7htings
  @ foreign weapon,  i, White said the names of  Wash. Post
  Regarding the question as to
  whether flying saucers exist, Lt,
  Robert. White, public informa-  Wash. News
  tion officer, said the Air Force
  believes reliable observers such
  as veteran airline pilots are sin.  Wash. Star
  eete when they report sighting
  unidentified objects,
  ‘The Air Force was tossed a hot  } A  N. Y. Times
  pees recently by Maj. Donald
  . Keyhoe, U.S.M.C. (ret.), who
  claimed in his recent book, “Fly-  NOT  RECORDED
  A. Y. Compass
  ing Saucers from Outer Space,”
  that the saucers not only are real
  but that they are of inter-plane-
  ‘tary origin.
  Furthermore, Keyhoe contends
  that the so-called “Utah film”
  Date: 1h28b -FF
  ied  by the Air Force proves
  infeligere experts reached the tic physical evidence—ts2tthey
  following conclusions;  are interplanetary.”
  1. The average speed of the  Continuing, Gen. Smith stated:
  unknown objects was somewhere
  “For the Air Force to admit
  between 653 and 980 miles per
  that flying saucers exist, it would
  hour,  .  want indisputable physical evi-
  2. All  the  objects  appeared dence. For such an admission, it
  round, of the same size, and gave would want stronger evidence
  off a bluish-white glow of very than it now has.”
  high intensity.  Summing up the problem, he
  3. The objects seemed to be said:
  maneuvering in a circular or el-  “So far, the question of
  liptical pattern within the group, whether flying saucers exist, and
  at very high speeds.  if so, what they are, has not been
  4. Because of these high speeds,  conclusively  answered  either
  the objects obviously could not be  way.”
  balloons or birds,  But one thing is certain, he
  added. The Air Force will con-
  5. They were not any type of
  tinue to seek the answer.
  known aircraft.
  Will  Push  Campaign
  6. The sighting could not be ex-
  plained by any conventional an-  Meanwhile,  Keyhoe  plans.
  to
  swer.
  continue  his campaign  to  com-
  pel the Air Force to disclose the
  “Asked  if  the  .Times-Herald facts he says it is concealing.
  could see the  final  analysis re-
  He told the Times-Herald he will
  port, an Air Force spokesman
  continue to make his claims in
  said that there were certain re-
  print and on television, and will
  ports the Air Force could not challenge the Air Force to deny
  make public for security reasons,
  them,
  risk of libel, and other reasons.
  “If any official, after reading
  However, the spokesman said  the final analysis on the Utah
  the film could be  viewed  at film, says that it did not rule
  Wright field, Ohio.  out birds, known aircraft or
  Not Discounting Theory  conventional objects as the
  The Air Force officially neither  cause of those objects, I will call
  accepts nor rejects the interplan-  him a liar to his face,
  etary theory.  “I do not like to use such
  terms, but after all, the Air
  Brig.  Gen.  Sory  Smith,  Air
  Force has, in-effect, been calling
  Force public relations chief, put it
  me a liar and I'm getting tired
  this way:
  of it.”
.  “We do not know enough about  Regardless of the charges and
  it to deny that flying saucers
  counter-charges, so long as the
  exist. Conyersely, we have no  Air Force has unsolved sightings
  .proof that they do exist.
  in its files — and until it is
  “In our investigation we are  definitely known what the fly:
  not discounting the possibility  ing saucers  are — the  average
  that the saucers—if they exist—  person is bound to wonder ..  .
  could be interplanetary. We are  Are the flying saucers real?
  interested in anyone who might  If so, what are they?  :
  be using the air over the United
  a  :
  The final chapter is yet to be
  written  in  this strange drama,
  , we have no authen-  The answer
  is not yet available
  to us.  =
  BOWLING GREEN, 0.-<A  PRIVATE PLANE PILOT SAID TODAY HE SAW “AN
OBJECT BRIGHTER fuaN THE  SUN FOR ABOUT FIVE SECON DS,” WHILE CRUISING
AT ABOUT BO MILES PER HOUR TWO MILES WEST OF  HERE,
  THE PILOT, WHO ASKED THAT HIS IDENTITY NOT  BE MN, SAID HIS
PLANE ,WAS AT‘ABOU T 3,000 FEET THIS MORNING WHEN HE SAW THE UNIDENTIFIED
  “TT LOOKED LIKE A BALL OF FIRE," HE SAID, “IT WAS BRILLIANT WHITE
  4

LIKE MOLTEN STEEL, THEN IT TURNED BLUE AND TOOK OFF STRAIGHT WEST, It
TOOK OFF WITHIN FIVE SECONDS.”  ANY JET PLANE
  THE PILOT SAID THE OBJECT WAS TRAVELLING FASTER THAN SKY WAS CLEAR
AND WAS GOING SOUTH WHEN HE FIRST  S  HE SAID THE
  PLANE S IN SIGHT AT THE TIME,  bi
  DIDN'T A FOOT IN DIAMETER AND WAS ABOUT THE SAMEHE , 5 se]
AND. THERE WERE NO OTHER
  HE SAID ME ED  THINK IT COULD HAVE BEEN ANY REFLECTION,
 AID IT APPEAR ABOUT
ALTUTUDE AT WHICH HE Was FLYING,  |
  12/41--TS151P

  pa

  191 DEC 16 (953
  FLYING SAUCER
  OBSERVATORY!
  Not Optical fllusions,}
  Top Experts Hold
  OTTAWA, Noy.  12, \CTPS)—
 Establishment  of  py yeenadian
 government observatory
  for.  fly-
||ing saucers, the first in the world,
‘hi  announced here.
  “There is a very high degree of
 probability  that  flying  saucers
 are real objects, and a 60 per
 cent probability that they are
 alien vehicles,” Wilbert B. Smith,
 scientist appointed to supervise
 the new saucer sighting station,
 told reporters.
  He said the federal transport
 department, in which he has
 charge of the telecommunications
 broadcast and measurement sec-
 tion, receives constant reports of
 sighting of flying saucers.  The
 total number, he said, is classi-
 fied as restricted information,
  “The optical illusion explana-
 tion is lovely,” he said, “but in
 every sighting there is always
 some factor that precludes  this
 explanation. We have decided to
 try_to learn just what they are.”
  Canada’s sighting station will
 be at Shirley bay, on the Ottawa
 river 10 miles west of here. Smith
 said any one locaion in Canada
 is sure to have at least one saucer
 sighting a year. Associated with
 Smith in the project,"which is.
 under the transport department  >  2  7
 ond ee coene esearch board  |  A,  7  ~
  NOT pencnnar
 will  be a  theoretical physicist ani  re
 Cy (GS in gravitational |)  .
  ‘A a¢hour watch will be kept|) <y  MS JAN 4 199
 studies.  ~  {  ;

.| for saucers, Specially built equip- }1 ey
 ment is wired to alarm bells. The ||Q
 coat ray le Lay wei  ——s
 spheric  reactor,  electronic  de-|/1~
 vices for measurement of sounds, |  Times Herald
  @ gamma ray detector, a gravi-
 meter, and other paraphernalia.
  Jet planes may be sent up from |,  Wash. Post
 the air force field near Ottawa
  to  investigate  any saucers  re-|
  ported by the station,—  Wash. News
  Defense  research scientists |,
  here never have  pooh-poohed fly-
  ing saucers, which have been pub-  Wash. Star
  reported in nightmarish

 dete  eeltale ofer ee
 described
 pk  bebe
  tieolored
  them  have
  cigar |  N. - Y. X. Time bs
  N.  Y. Compass

  _
  _
  ren sceuth
 Cr,Santa FE, evita HE SANTA FE NEW MEXICAN SAID TODAY) THAT Cae
  "FANTAS TICTM  STRIDES  |HAVE BEEN MADE IN THE FIELD OF GUIDED MISSILE
  RES EARCH AND THAT If IS) *POSSIBLE* Nhe DEFENSE DEPARTMENT MAY SOON
  CLEAR  UP THE MYSTERY  OF; a!  Ny
  THE NEWSPAPER SA}D *S  MOVED FROM SOME ASPECTS
  QF THE HUSH-HUSH PR{ eRAtm AT A SPECIAL DEMONSTRATE
  ON TENTATIVELY
  Spring. AT THE WHETE SANDS PROVING GROUNDS SOUTH OF HERE LATER THIS
  “IT "IS POSSIBLE WHAT THE DISCLOSURE SOON TO SE MADE BY THE DEPART-
  MENT OF DEFENSE HAY,  IN PART AT LEAST,  EXPLAIN. SOME OF THE hi Salad
  SIGHTED IN SOUTHWESTERN SKIES BY BEWILDERED Ons ERVERS WHO HAVE
  TDs  dice SFLYLNG mi aS FOR LACK OF A BETTER}NAME,® THE PAPER
  » HENDRICKS,  COMMANDANT OF THE PROVING GROUNDS,
  = @HAY WOTHENG  TO DO WITH ANYING  LI
  ‘  WE ARE STRICTLY IN  THE GUIDED  MISSILE
  BUS  THERE CER  aint fonst BE ANYTHING LIKE A FLYING SAUCER)
~—LEMONsSTRATED, ©
  EW Auer
SAUCERS.
p  N  as ised
  BUT MERELY
  ted  Stn  aD, SKY _NEZT WEEK 0  vk
  *SUDDEN TRAILS OF LIGHT ex fur for Fi 7
  te |
  PT

pid  AND. ARE HEATED TO TNGANDESCENCE SY THE. RESTSTANGE.oF AIR *t8
  RTICLES  FROM OUTER SPACE THAT, ENTER OUR ATMOSPUER  REMEND

THEETLLBe ESPECIALLY. BAD, ABOUT THE 10TH AND THE agtH OF THE
HoNTH
  RT Rp COLES Suntan OF ‘THE HAYDEN PLANETARI  HERTGAN
seu
  FHE TWO.NATURAL.
  PRINCIPALeratGAVEOMERS-IN
  FAIR NOTICEOF TiteCOLES
  E LGN  a THE
  CAD."aneTHE.
SO-CALLED , TAURIDMETEORS  HS HOW. OFF. BEST. AROUT T  THE
MONTH, ANDTHE Lebono tee ons > WHICH STEAL THE SHOW fo out THEON tl,
  4

  \o2. 233
  £3394. #4.
  -
  NOT REGaene
  138 |NOVl79 1952

  53 NOV 181952
  © OFFICERS INVESTI
  + TREAKED ACROSS He

  LAY ENFORCEMENT
  IT WAS) ALSO ~

  Y THAT COULD HAVE if
 CAA. OFF!
cN MES TA KEI
THIS IS IT  A sketch of the flying saucer which Her-
  bert Long, 29,  a Kutztown, Pa., insurance salesman, contends hesaw parked on a road 30 feet
from his car. He said he was too frightened to approach it.
He’s shown (left, below) giving Leroy Gensler, artist,
directions for the sketeh. (AP Wirephotos)
  What Is  It?
  ‘The unknown object  of: the building when he noticed the unusual saucer«
  the picture, photographed above  Tike object in his  view finder, so he snapped the pic-
Anacortes, moves swiftly through the sk  eeming-  ture at 1/100th of a second. Elliott was unable to
Iy @ part of a cloud  formation. But  is it? Walter  determine the nature of the unusual object which
Elfiott of Anacortes was preparing to take  picture  quickly disappeared.  "(Associated Press W  io.)
  sky-waichers
  nosities which the Ameri  seen two fiying cigar-shaped ob.
  lit  has come to call “flying saucers”  jects.
  re phenomena with a recorded  Cigar-shaped objects have be
  lfistory dating back at least 200  spotted  skyward  by  innumerab!
  ars and  perhaps several thou-  participants in America’s postwar
  nd.  saucery.

  The Biblical  Ezekiel’s  airborne  Flying lights which differ in all
\wheels, for example, had some of  apparent  respects  from  shooting
 the -earmarks of what  modern  stars, meteors, and the like, have
  American science fiction readers,  been seen by multitudes of sailors
  televiewers and “cold worriers” are  over the centuries, and their. ac-
  on the verge of regarding as inter- \eounts of the phenomena diffe
  planetary scouts or missiles from  hardly at all from those contrib!
  Moscow.  uted by recent viewer
  Dr. Donald H. Menzel, profes-  Some  people  see  white lights
  sor of astrophysics at Harvard  moving in formation;  others see
  University, made this point in  kelly green fire balls; others
  n  interview last  month  with  orange fire balls; others See fly-
  ‘ime magazine. He produced  ing disks; others see the cigar-
  locumentary evidence that there  shaped  mysteries.  Some  of  the
|  was a saucer scare in Chicago  objects seem  to hover, virtually
|  bn  Ansil_10_1897, when  man$-1——SContinued  on Pag—i61—

  Hiotiontess, before darting into a  sije speeds, or
  cloud and  disappearing forever  Hovering, depending on conditions.
  others move at what seems t  Headlights,  aerial  searchlight},
  ¢ an impossible rate of speed  efen street lights in a city can  bp]
  eversing  direction  instantane-  rfiracted by  the atmosphere an|
  usly,  swooping and climbing it  bpcome “flying saucers” out in th]
  manner which no man-made  country miles away, he says.
  nachine or human pilot_could  To prove it, he has produced
  survive.  startlingly similar phenomena in
  Since one of the foundations of  his own laboratory.
  Qne of the reasons the Air Force
modern science is to believe nothing that cannot be proved, mobt  ha felt impelled to take part jn
speor:  about  the  skitterie.  he public debate on the subiegt,|
  be  rejectef.  fter having satisfied itsif
yhatizzits  have  to
  Ihrough research that the sauces
  ‘any theories which have gaindd
  re something akin to what Mend]
wide currency are based on facts  escribes, is that, radar scopes in|
Which are “probably true.” But no
  conclusions  on  Washington have been described]
scientist bases
  as  spotting the saucers at the same
things which only are probable.  time pilots and ground observers
  The closest anyone has come  were seeing them with the nakeq
not only to explaining the phe-  ve.
nomena, but duplicating them, is
  5
  Until  further  returns are  in,
  vof-  Menzel.  He believes th  the only explanation availab|
  ueers are fancy mirages—actud]  is one known to anyone who h:
  nages of lights, but _displacei|  ver had anything to sy vit
  rough miles  of space by refra¢-|  ladar—you see all kinds  un-
  ‘on, He explains that light mov!  ccountable things on it. It w:
slower thro  a dense, medium  mnsidered noteworthy that A;
like  cold  air  than  in  warm.  air.  force radar in the same regio}
When it passes from a layer of  failed to pick up the impuls
dense cold air into a layer of less  which the CAA now has addel
dense  warm air at an appropriate  to flying sauctttore.
angle, it is bent, and may be seen
  aay,  as  if  distmocc
  Laughlin
  Mohr.
  Tele. Rm.
  Holloman.

  re in the Sky Again

Radar Spots More Mystery Objects Here,
Fliers Report Sighting Glowing Lights
  Washington received  of a cigaret, or a
  her | away. The pilot said he wasn’t) lighted ofendorange
yisit Iast_night from the  n them. and
  uniden?able to cl  they clusterand red lights.
  ‘ere  “reall y movin  g.” He lost| Radar operators plotted  their
ee 1 ob  | speed
  er.  at from  38  to 90  miles  per
| those rep  he z  sight of them two minutes lat  ajhou  r.  They  were  not able  to de-
  ‘At least a dozen of the mys-| The» wate  same pilot  observ ed  Some
  ee  BN  east|t ermin e  their  altitud e,
 {terious objects were reportinedtheto aces
 Ihave been seen glowing  of Mount Vernon at 1 :39 p- m-|pilots report
  us of Be Eh: abouptor  t Ae re andBefosome  them. over them)
  undeedr flying
{sky within a 30-mile alvadipick
 theip_ocinty.the‘They  were  ed)  The  i nterce  s di d not
  that.si g ht
  Al-  resterilaostus wesltslights, tenorso-calged
  e_my
  any more
  “of thel| thoug
  scren c Contro
  radar"traffi  h  after
  s screen stil ) Vion
  lightradar
  the  e.__bepurolieved
 GAA.
  enter
  Ali  ‘maton Nationsl| picked. up the) objects.re mid- radi  One|  nev  to
  er  Lave
  i  |plane landed shortly befo show  n on
  5 p. m., two F-94 jet | night, and the other about 12:15 jrad
 fighters were sent up  It  was
  by the|a. m.
  the seco nd5 time these sulle  nc!
  ai howe’ V
  radar,

  ir
 Air Defense command to inves-
 tigate the lights. The ilotsgre-/ obje cts have
  +
  been  pick ed up by. peas conta
  but radar. Last night's visitors Tather than li
‘porte d sethe  in
  eligh  ts,closer’ showed up first on the screen A CAA spokesman
  eee cot able to get any  up last nighe oft gave
  Wilets. fat 9:08. p. m. and remaned for| jects picked
  7ou  reg-  thos aia
| light  piloab
  than
  "Hesmasjethard
  tothe  de
  tsto see  sc  ‘
  ribt he ed
  |som
  and track!\piloAirli
  e  time .  and”  me
  off blips
  i , ular  are
  simi
  iale
  ne, privatedtes seeing them. The J ir Force has been
  lar, toPeta
  sec  inve:i ee
  t
  alown:  P  ts alllorepor  they came
  said miles
  e pior tsthree
  |Somtwé
  pilot- |in
  jet vicin  with-| tigat ing/  last  Wee  k's
  mM. sOnein the
  11:33fourp: light
  "Atrved
  obse  of the} ob-|this  reportshi of 1ee:
  said month  ce

  wereAirabout
  Andrews
  ‘pheoflights
Sity  feet! ajects.
  Force500base.  They  were
  s looking  varioblusly
  like  u e  descris,bed|
  light  the! est_s
  were  ince
  see  1947  (3 1
  ty
  above him and about 10 miles'  Z

  Times-Herald -

  Wash. Post

  Wash. News

  Wash. Star

  N.Y. Mirror
  a=
  N.Y. Compa
  NOT  RECORDED  ss  ——
  98 JUL  it,
  31 1952
  OULD  HAVE  HESTI TATED
  WATCHED -THE,  WHOLE

  PASSENGER  WERE  WITTING  WHERE  THEY
  b  GHT  M4
  OUR  ALTITUE my

  ID  iS OF LIGSHT
  3H  SAID, . “BUT THEY HAD

  ALMOST  DIR ECTLY  SELOW  THE

  AN. “ALMOS mr 9
  URN  TO THE  HH

  BY  TWO.
  D’ ALTITUDE,
  OTHER  IDE
  LIGHTS  OF  ALL  ELGHT  FLICKE
  T  "PERHAPS
10,009  BUT THEY
HE SAID,
  WERE GOING  $0  FAST
  STIMATE,"
  SANTOS.  CEYANES  ACTING  IAGER  FOR  PAN AMERICAN  HERE
  ID THE FLYING SAUCE  FORTENBERRY  "OBVIOUSLY WERE
  RIGHEN  OF  TH
  NASH,
 97008, Aik HOURS, FORTENBERRY,
  A NAVY. TRANS
  “PILOT IN
  FOR  L WAR It  IS  A  VETERAN  oF
  RLY A NAVY  FIGHTER  PILOT,  HAS  BEE?
Al  OYE  OF  PAA  SINCE  THE  WAR,
  MADE  BY.  NAS  TODAY WAS.
  TH
  THE  LATEST  oF
  PORT:
  I

  WOT RECORDED
  Se JUL 23
  Ig
  —_—

  WHAT FLEW ACROSS
  ENGLAND  YESTERDAY  ?

  ~ Football
  , Crowds See
  ‘Flying Saucer’  By Sunday Dispateh Reporter

  Sr HOUSAN DS of people in many parts of
  Britain, including spectators at foot-
  ball matches, saw what many of them
  believed to be a flying saucer yesterday.
  In each case the phenomenon—a strange
  white flash which darted across the sky at terrific
  speed—was seen about 4 p.m.
  _  These reports of the passage of this object
  through the sky were received by the Sunday
  Dispatch last night:
  More than 500 spectators at a Soccer cup match at
  Chard, Somerset, saw a strange white phenomenon dart
  across the clear sky high above the grandstand at about
  3.45.  Within a split second of passing it seemed to disperse
  on the horizon.

  Spectators Cried ‘Oh’
  Spectators in the stand cried “Oh!” as the white,
  liquid form sped inland from the direction of the English
  Channel.
  Spectators at a Rugby match two fields away saw it.
  One, Mr. Arthur H, Jenkins, postmaster of Chard, said ;
  “Tt was like a diamond flash;  its shape was like a big
  peardrop, with the thin end tapering behind. Suddenly it
  “Teiven’’ into nothingness.”  i  2
SUNDAY DISPATCH
LONDON,  Eh  AND
DEC. 3, 1950
  and
  a “sheet of  white  hes
  metal”  %
  Chairman of Chard F.C., Mr.
  William Taunton, sitting in the
  stand, said: “It came right over
  the topof us like a brilliant streak
  and then seemed to dissolve before
  ‘our eyes.”  vis  4

  Miss stpeewatch- 2.fisen
  B  Bg

  000%which
  ieeelett
  cauanan
  "|

  ten whee
  of Ham Green, said:  “Tt looked
  ,  who
“tng a football match at “Perry|  -|
  a tail of Val
  2,000ft.  There  i
  Street, three miles south of Chard,
  Spectators at the match bet
  Said she saw a  low-fiving, silvery)  gntrccpury.  and.  Longfleet  St.|
  four deiood, “MI” shortly before| Nay“Teported what appeared is
  At North Petherton, near Bridg- geen roes
  }

  :  ;
  2  se

  water, spectators at another match
  |  Bovingdon  airport
  saw an object in the north-west |  Bovingdon auport ‘
  in Hertford-|
  Tiandaw,  |
  a shortly before four ons  |  iso reported to the Air Ministry
  |
  It was described as “a  i  shite
| snake-shape thing which stteakea|  {24 & brilliant white, Neve.
  through the sky at a terrific rate.”|  45m  Observers estimated tha’
  Mr. T.  Hollinghurst,
  of North|  it was  at about 20,000ft.
 “Petherton, said: "Tt appeared sud-|  thas it vanighed t
  and
  denly  and  went  away  suddenly,
  leavi ig a creamy smoke. There  ini
  Was no noise and  there were no},
  Planes about,”

© Channel Explosion
  air

  | _ cd is most unlikely
  A few minutes later
  a flash,
  as|  Scheduled  private
 -thoueh from an explosion, was |  {2:28 lace at suc
  seen at.a great height over the|
  tol ey  el, 50 miles to the|  ©@520%
  “No aircraft
  explain

  d.
  ts  from pla¢es
  les “apart “wereas much  as
  received

  veen  4.

 Bon PP ir
 s  area'®
_ integrated.  The
 as 20.000%t. @  4
  rted  to the Air Minis
  leston-super-Mare police
  nistry
  a.
  What Did The WAS
  People Of

  Last Week? FLVING
  Devon See  —

  By Sunday Dispatch Reporter

  SAUCER
  EST OF ENGLAND newspapers gave much
  publicity last week to reports of “ flying
  saucers ’ over Devon.
  The saucers were reported by a number
  of independent  nesses from places as far
  apart as Woolacombe (near Ilfracombe),
  Exeter, Cullompton, Sidmouth Junction, and
  Paignton (60 miles south of Woolacombe).
  Bye witnesses’ descriptions of what they saw are stub-
  there was no noise and a  trail
 stantially in agreement—
 of fire streamed from the back, The observations were at
 ate AL p.m.
  in all instances.
  Stewart, 70-year-old
  J.  ‘oolacombe pensioner, who

  worm txed  in aircraft fac.
  two wars, was onetheof sKethey were of a brilliant sil-
  people who told
  at
  'y, blue, Go south, one be-
  © dpre  ss  and Echo wh  fae ee other in close formation,”
  seen.
  oe: passing overhead, the |
  Ab 1050 07, Moo  M  O  M
  Monday evening,
  t  s  rear object appeared to catch
  north
  n, of the speed:
noticed, AMairectio8”  whereon they disintegrated”
  with the front one and  collide,

  av
fromtPtinay Fra  verrife  con-:
  Beacon
  of f
  nklinn, o  Bea  Bright  Disc
  a alle  ab Coun- 3 TBS
  namiltayesnigh
  object was described by Miss
  arond  sout,th-eheastsawof tampton
  Spurway, of Exeter-hill, Cul-
  Ao miles north-east of
Exet
te
  ida fomjects.
  el  Exeter)
  ling
  a bright
  witacua
  disc travel-
  aD movenient at!
  great speed.
  Two and. a half miles north of
  Bemonth, ie Coreswas seen ab

 LO1N1D-5O-5N,0 ENGLAND \ (,
  SUNDAY DISPATCH
  11 p.  By Mr. and Mrs. L. Mus-
  aa He Hill-erest, Lympstone, who
  been in two
  described it as having
  parts “apparently attached  in
  some way with a lighted tail.”
  The sixth witness quoted ur ny
  of Sidmouth Junction, wn,
  Express and -Echo is Mr. A.
  ~iLong Red Trail’ __|
  “They passed swiftly,” he said,  fr  Bluish  Light
  “in a southerly  direction and ap-
  peared to. be ‘in line astern’ with
  Frederick Bray, fisherman, agec
  @ long red trail to the rear  89, was lying in the bunk of hi:
  ...  boat in ‘Torquay outer harbour!
  both lights seemed to fizzle out as
  I watched them—they were in a  when  he  saw  a  “bluish-white
  clear patch of sky when this hap-  light” appear over Princess Pier
  at about 11 p.m.  “I watched the
  pened ... I heatd no sound,”
  flames for about ten seconds. They
  “Two  large  ctreular  objects  seemed to surround a roundish ob-
  travelling south in a horizontal
  ject which was travelling towards
  pesieion  looking somethin;  ik  Thatcher Rock” (to the East).
  large white flames” is the  descrip-
  tion given in the Western rA?  While walking along the sea
  front to Torquay Station, Mr. D.
  News of  what  Mr, Arthur N.
  Bearne, 55-year-old estate agent, of  Jeffery, of Winner-street, Paignton,
  SAN  Something  in
  Southfield-avenue, Preston, Devon,  the  sky.  “a
  Saw at  thought at first it was a rocket fire-
  Paignton at 11 p.m.  on  Work,” he told the Herald Express.
 Monday.
  “Then I noticed it was maintain-
  Members of the crew of a libert;
  ing a constant speed at a constant
 boat  plying  between  Flagsta!  height. . . It was absolutely silent.
 Steps, Devonport Dockyard, and
  It seemed to disintegrate suddenly
 HLM.S. Defiance are also/ reported
  and disappear.”
  A “ball of bluish-white light”
  Was seen at  about  11  p.m. in  the
  sky  above’ Paignton  travelling
  south  towards  “Brixham.  Mr.
  Harry Cove-Clark, of Marine-drive,
  Paignton, said: “The ball of light,
  was  preceded  by  a  thin  blue  blur
  wee was overtaken by the main
  jody.

  "Like Feeble Rocket ’
  “Then Aa eEen bluish-white light
  pppeared  and  a  broken stream of
  Ae  its Seemed to fall from it. poe
  all  Seemed  to  be  following  eac!
  other straigl ht across the sky, then
  there was a spurt. of flame’
  from
  the end of the broken
  like a feeble rocket.” 5  pieces—just
  :
  ‘The last.of the witnesses, Mr.
  H.
  Warren, of East-street, Torre, ‘Tor
  way, saw from his  bedroom’ win-
  iow  an  object  “going  towards
  Brixham, due south of Torquay.’
  Describing  it  in  a  letter  to  the

  Lie titres Stats with
  aper, he saic“TI thought it wa
  long-tall ot]
  ight, trailing behind thé

 in the Western Morning News as
having  seen  “circular  objects
travelling at an incalculable speed
and emitting
Monday night,a trail of fire” late on§
  The—sejuay  Herald Frrross
quotes four other people who saw
similar objects.
  ~ FLYING SAUCER’ —
  “RIDDLE
  O  far  flying  saucers  eontrol or
  have  been  treated by  travelling at
  the majority of British  prodigious
  speeds,  yanish-
  people  with  incredulity  and
  ing  suddenly,
  polite ridicule. But why  ?
  ‘and associated
  I have studied all the reports  with brilliant light, fringes of fire
  available.  I  have seen photo-
  or flames of peculiar colour al}d
  graphs—those  in  the ~ Sunday
  generally rotating  or whirling.
  Dispatch last week were particu-  From many pi  of the wor'
  laply clear—and I believe they are  come these reports.  The vejy
  pitotographs of disc-type aircraft.  fact that their descriptions are
  larlier pictures published in  consistent has led to their being
  dismissed as hallucinations, de-
  tHe Spanish Press last April, arid
  fective vision, or mild hysteria.
  alteged to have been taken in the  Tt might be that the solution
  Balearic Islands, might have been  of this riddle could lie in a very
  anytning and could have been a  unorthodox approach, and I have
  leg-pull. It is not always easy to  wondered if there could possibly

  [b2 -£3874-A
  be  turbulences  set  up  in  our  2200
  sort the wheat from the chaff.  atmosphere  which  could  cause
  whirling  “dust  devils”  of
  SECRET TRIALS  Juminous gases caused by jet or
  other an speed experiments
  NoT RE.
  i
  ORDED

  JN. all the reports the objects  which might be responsible for  1  AUG 11 1950
  fall into three groups, The  the generation of small atomic
  most substantial of them come  whirlpools in the atmosphere,
  from America.  Group Three reports suggest
  that the saucers are high speed
  First group are those saucers
  aircraft of circular or dise shape
  which are capable of being ex-  travelling at speeds much higher
  plhined away as glimpse of ex-  than those attained by normal
  panicentes  trials of various  planes.
  ice
  Inder this nea fall many
  of the objects seen in Southern  SAFETY SEARCH
  US.  and  other areas where  THERE is no reason at all
SUNDAY DISPATCH  Secret experiments are in pro-  why annular and cireula
JULY 9, 1950  gress, For this: group 1 am pre-  dise-like aireraft, should not have
  pared to accept the explanation  been common objects at any time
LONDON, ENGLAND  given by the  United States Army  during the past 30 years,
  Air Force as “ misinterpretations  ‘The early history of these very
  of conventional objects.”  unorthodox-looking aircraft was,
  ‘These conventional objects are  ironically, based on a search for
  giant experimental cosmic ra;  safety.
  palloons which fill out to 100f!  Before 1910 it had been shown
  Jong and 70ft. in diameter as they  that square and circular surfaces
  rise, radar bareee balloons capable  had yery good non-stalling char-
  of rising to 70,000ft. and trailing  acteristics up to large angles. Bub,
  glittering aluminium foil But  when powered aircraft arrived ib
  guided missiles, and stratospheric  was found that the easiest way to
  experiments  from  Los  jamos,  minimise the losses due to the end
  Ci  stated to have  slip of the air from the wing tips
  above  the  was to increase the span of wings
  uurface.  while keeping  them narrow.
  ‘Two consists  of those  ‘This compromise brought other
  «mysterious  visitants  trouble.  Barly pli  je
  to wild surmises  their stalling ani
  missiles from  degrees, and stalling must re:
  inter-planetary  ina dive since the only correct!
  of a stall Is a  flight  at some  spe!
  eck then teay
  P)

  deseriptions  are remark-
  mb and.  erally, the
  nig about
  xr white  or
  without directiviss
  ver.
  would Hoe ‘accept she kineswi if
  se.
  ‘| believe they are disc-type
  aircraft,/ says—
  G. TILGHMAN RICHARDS,
  senior Research assistant
  and official lecturer at the
  South Kensington Science
  Museum,  London, who has
  studied all the
  evidence.
  still, a con
  . there isnica  siderable oly  ’
  ‘of tech l ion  satisfied
  opinion not reac
  pis ‘perfect hask, bee  n  hed,
  d here, I thin  lies the real
  answer.
  ‘This body of opin  ion  has been
  rching for man
  continually gn.seaDes  the
  rs of  y
  Sate" desi have, igne  been . striv ing
  nationalities
  since the earl  y 1920's with reat  e
Enlargements fromedflyin g saucer  Sticcess toward a foolproof plan
pictures—front-pag  last week  of disc type.
  H. Zimmer.
which set everyone  talking.
  er  In 1934-35 Charles
 They wer  e  take n  by  Farm  man n, in the United
 Trent, McMinnville, Oregon, U.S. a_dis  e wing airplane
  with a helicopter
must, of necessity  , be subject toe vertical ascent spee
  and
these dangers. ‘The  y turned asid s a high forward  d.
  inve stig ate  possibl e, win
tolj should be safe from stalling g form
‘which
an|l  spinning.  NAVY STE  PS IN
  ls”) & few
  mong. these ‘‘ rebeair  d Hoentes
  ome  history.  19, 1937 he grante
names have becArth ur Keith wit  for his pate  nts to the
  and
Jose Weissplet  le swallow.  Di
  Chance Vought Aircraft Corp
{heir com ely in.stab 1909. Btrich,  of the  United Aircraft  oralike mo s lane
  nop
  in Austria  in 1911  tion in the U.S.
and Wel stab  le wingfor m based  But at that point the U.S.  Navy
  a
evolving Zann onia leaf from which~
  all further devel;
  stepped in, andbeen
on the  opment has  of @ secret
 Rumpler and the majority of Ger  be
  ed the ‘Tautoo  nature, though ib has been  stated
  builders devnnelop
man opla  that this combina  tion is capable
 mon  ne. Du e, with his  eA pects from  0 to  500  miles per
  6 wing.
 stable, tailless, 'bacl awe  in  acco rd
 biplane,  1912,
  r mono)  ‘his performance, is  rs
 Richards annula  with reports that flying sauce
 4910-14, withwhich I was asso  travel at great speeds, hover,
 ciated.  ascend and  descend with little
  forward motion.
  NOT PERFECT  Tt is perhaps a little hard to
  believe that there can, as
  WITH thewaroutbre ak of the ist enough oforts,
  these types
  bub here)
  research of Bs rey
  this
  igi4
  . type was aba ndo  ned , and  all  why such aircraft
  not have been seen provid.
  on perform- should
  study concentratedsafe  ing  that full scale work followe
  ty.
  ance rather than ern plane was  the experimental period. And
  By 1918 the mod
  earlier research  secrecy  would suggest that thi
  established,tenand
  .
  0,
  was forgot  And there could lie the m¢
  natu rally , used
  Civil airlinesplanes, and then Salta proof that flying saucers
  war
  daptea,  II, Once more
  fame World Warimpo
  {tations  were  sed.
  ‘m. spite of the ortho  doxy of
  dpsign there was  ‘througho ut the
  inter-war years, ANd ) Wa a why
  y  We
  @ eek
  MP rye  “df 4. VIG,

  riginal ‘Flying Saucer ?
But the Navy Says *  “Whe
  O
  Saucers’ New-T ype Aircraft,
  robably Navy, Magazine Says
  |  By Jobu G, Norris
}  Post Reporter

  ‘Flying  saucers”  are  in  fact
  ing off the rear jets, turning
  radically new type aircraft, conor the side and front nozzles.
  forming to known areodynamic’  “Great speed can be obtained
  laws and probably developed by by focusing to the rear all nozzles
  the'United States Navy, the maga- in the after half of the aircraft.
  zine United States and World Re- With all nozzles pointed down-
  eae ecdas  lward, the saucer could rise
  port
  \straight off the ground, and with
  ‘This latest effort to explain the less power, could  descend  the
  ‘fly-
  continuing reports of strange
  ing disks at various points over |S@  e wa!  :

  pt  “Jet  prom  helicopter  action  -  :
  the  country  brought  a
  makes takeoffs and landings almost.
  denial from the Navy Department) completely safe.”
  that it is now “cond ucting resea  |
  rch
  such  said that an early
  plane  or}  The magazine
  or  flying”  any
  model of the saucer was built by
  missile.
  National Advisory Committee for
  A spokesman pointed out that:
  Aeronautics experts in 1942 and
  the Navy did‘develop the “pan- tTade 100 successful flights. ‘The
  Chance-Vought
  haped”
  Navy then took over development
  put that it never flew and
  and “much more advanced models
  was scrapped more than a year
  now are being built.”  |
  ‘ago, A small, 3000-pound scale NACA Engineer Charles H. Zim-  |
  model of the plane was flown and merman designed the first model,
  pictures of it have been released.)
  Norfolk } which
  but this model is now at Nation
  had a ‘speed of from 400 to
  500 miles an hour and was pow-
  awaiting shipm ent to the  al
  ered by two piston  propellers, said
  ‘Air Museum here.  the article.
  ‘The weekly new s m agazine did
  “Surface indications,” the mag-
  |not quote any authority  for  its
  azine went on, “point to research}
[flatement that the “ying saucers  centers of the United States Navy's
 aregreal American planes, but sai; vast guided-missile project as the|
 tha} “engineers  com peta nt to a.  de-|
  liable observ:
  scene of present flying-saucer
  praike reports of resio ns:
  velopment.”  ‘The project, it was

  reach these conclu
  ‘Associated Press Pholp
  said, has the “scientists, the en-
  1948 and flown by the  Navy unddr |
  f aircraft developed inneve r flew, the Navy has announced |
  ¥,
  gineers, the dollars, the motive,

  ary type, 2 co
  m bination of
  Th ey
  heli:  and the background” for the
  spaped ibs reese craft
  ie an d fas t jet pla ne.  “This likelihood will remain, d
  |
  of| spite any future denials by the
  ciples
  peor to well-known prin
  is
  Navy front office, until secrecy
  I:
  co!  |lifted,” the magazine added.
  aerody at exactly 105 feet in di-)  The: Navy declared jityayas true}
  They @veular in shape” and ‘“are| that its abandoned “flying pai  ROT  RYOGRARD
  ametel, Mer otal alloy, with a dull cake” was designed by Zimmer-|
  made of  @  "phere are no rud- man, and was called the “Zimmer-|  - 83 APR  11 1950
  whitis i ie ‘ons or other protruding man Skimmer,” It added that a
  rofm the side, the caucers st
  aile  smaller scale model—one-
  os: he about 10 feet thick  size—is  still at
  ee
  ird  of  actual.

  ot,
  pear M aucer appears to
  «pach ¢ yariable-direction  ‘ACA’s Langley, Va., laborati
  ms  for wind-tunnel tests, but
  around  |. Direction of Navy insisted it had no such Proj-|
  ane and iis velo  city, in lect now active,  ]
  aft  fare controlled by The Air Force, after many]
  vider’ “nich the jet nozzles months of investigation of “fiying!
  ing jsaucer” ” reports, concluded that all
  fue number operat  pointed to “mis
  Ww  ia which nozzles to terpretation
  pli  the evidence
  of  various  conver-
  py choos  and  the angle of
  \tional objects, a mild form of mass
  or of “could make the  y  juysteria, of hoaxes.”
  pilot tacen d  ve rtic all
  6  ahe ad or  mak  e
  t
  ighsh
  rise

  stra
  ght-angle wrn  WASHINGTON POST
  ay  swa  |

  could be made by
  ep  furmte,  Dated 4-4-50
  + example
  m America, the ‘home’ f  I
ucers, comes this up-to-the-minute ;
mmary of report and rumour about
  e modern mystery of thg  skies.

  CHARD GREENOUGH

  ATTACHE
  OFFICE OF THE LEGAL TT:
  AMERICAN EMBassy
 THE DAILY MAIL  LouDou,
 APRIL 35/1950),
 LONDON, ENGLAND

@ OA it 64
  ge flames—roomate? ‘tre
  yows-or-tghts
  oran
  in thes

  ‘Sometimes they have been re-
  ported. shaped Tiketubes, pil
  2  spheres.
  EW Yorx, Sunday.  But twomeee
  VER since Ken-

  anar.y30-year-  old,
  neth Arnold,

  pusiness-man
  it from_ Botse, Idaho,
  mystery
z ue ” the  jaded"
  by report-of cosmi  gant  Peaperi mtarentht
  off  the  “flying  "i

&  afternoon  c-ray  al oons,
  1947, that he had patoonsaay ita ene ing
  radar
  eean f
  1 onine shiny
  aS

  discs like See‘of or whole vapour tra  eto  ca
  Rt looked. I Za
  ps_flip-flap- f iron nigh Ose, aircraft, bright
  hub-ca
  eam cone toppe
  along at about 1,200  {
  s, of mass+ hysteria,
  Hoaxeform
  ”only one fact seems 5°2. Mild
  i  An ee  ence
  ‘jence

  But gieadly, from 1947 up uit
  atten,
  proved de- object
  y has yetthin:  rts of cu
  diye agFeehan
  areGuek ee BG Keen. on,Sn comiaie Ae ot over  BU  gL

  Sela pave  ene MexTine
  podineasont
  enany oulhu aaecoming.
  the Us. Air

  a
  Saucer ‘afclgoes
  osed ena  Si eal =feaa
  som,
  lest ecto They  haye also, ot magne  pan

  g ing, the FSengaine
  aeaignthe Hoya most
  ‘The ob;

  Leycr
  onvent
  all  eos  |

  tion of “con-
  hen a _prilliant,
  ject Suddenly ap
  His last report
  Giles told Eee
  “We saw  i  t
  “Fo  25  minutes  Mantell
  ‘and the two other pilo
tried vainly to close in.  Mant
reported the object was climbing
 and moving at a speed equal to
his Sie which he gave as 360
 mypl
  Tn broken cloud at 18,000ft. the |
"other two pilots lost sight of him,
 later broke off and landed.
  multitude
  F} opie on ee {
  juarter  years
 that if  were no closer
 20,000ft. Hera abandon the chase

{ eS That was the last heard from
  hadn't the oxygen.

  yhem through inde lars.
  BiG the pee that first started
  Bort  Knox and the wreckage of
  fis body was later found near
  to sit fh ae
  the U.S, Air Forreel
  is machine scattered over half'a
  le around. Obviously his plabe
  id disintegrated in mid-air.
  ject Saucer” was. the ange
  notice, and then institut
  number of parently, responsible
  | Oficial Air Force version
  y ol ang rae
  pilots anc  nbers
  at  ‘Mantel,  had  probal  sent in star!  reports|
  blacked  out”  from  lack  of
 joxyeen‘and had not regained consciousness before he crashed. out
 of cont.trol.
  ‘Still a mystery
  ee  TanaIS
  one Gishis

  tia,  He a ‘quite rimilar
  was too exper!

  Sw  oxygen
  of  a}
NEWS CHRONICLE  OFFICE OF THE LEGAL ATTACIR
LONDON, ENGLAND  AMERICAN EvBassy
APRIL 3, 1950  LONDON, BNGLAND
  In the huge Eeniagan build  ing
  ‘Washington, headquarters elisof
  e Defence Department,  ther
in Air Force major whoirersse dufy
  js to repeat to all inqu  the
  bstance of the last Air Forfesaucers,
statement  on  flying
issued on December 27, 1949.
  “ Mlass hysteria”
  On  of inquiries into
  the basis  a
875 alleged occurrences overanperiod of two years, it was
  “Reports of unnounced:
identified fying objects are the
result of misi interpretation of
  or &
various conventional objects
mild form of mass hysteria or
hoaxes.”
  It was said a continuance of
the inquiry was.it“unw arranted.”
  But in ‘fact  has appeared
 co the last month that
| gredible witnesses who say.they
 ave  seen flying  saucers are still
  it ir  examined ‘by Intelligence|
  noted, too, ho
  was
itTt Vas Meorougk
  ,
DAILY EXPRESS
London, England  ; -&3

cl ae ae  Ie OF RECORDED
  85 APR 191950
  ,YINGsaucers” are »
  Fone the news.
  rom.  New: York comes a
  report that  Captain  Jack
  JAdams,  pilot of the  Chicago
  and Southern Airlines, radioed
aint he and a co-pilot had
 ‘grossed the path of a large flyfiaet dows. and a peculiarly
 LSucer,  with  lighted

 “coloured blinking light on  duced an article in which he  In  December,  1949,
  yp  and  travelling  at  about  claimed to have received a  official body which had ‘b
  600 m.p.h, over Arkansas,  message, via a medium, that  established in America to profe
Se ‘This was followed by a news there were people aboard the  the “saucers” was disband
  le from Lisbon: Scores of  “saucers.”  It had been in operation
  ig  Saucers reported  by  - They  came  from  another  two years, and had investiga fary
  tguards  of  the  North planet, and wishea ‘to try liv-  375 incidents.
  jugal  coast  flying  in line  ing on earth.
  It said that thephenomena
and other “formations and reported
  In Britain  re
| moving est “faster than ane.  pretation of various cian
  was caused by
  : (a) misix
  over Brighto  n beach,
  another  soo seen by
ees the have
  1950 “opened
  saucer early,
  season”
  bull  a  tional objects; (b) a mild form
  clergyman’s wife at Sandwich.  ’
| s ems to eport of these phaed ‘Truman compared the rumours _ of_And
  mass hysteria; (c) hoaxes,
  Back in America President
  there, one might, haye
  came on June 25, 1947,  to the scare of over a hundred imagined, the story would have
  ended.’
|  when  a Mr.  Dahl of Tacoma,  years  ago,  when  word  got  But  the  “fiyi
  Vi  gton, noticed a circular  around  that there were  men  ‘saucer:
  ying
  1  e, like a silver  and batsliving on the
  | ‘The neatest “ flying
  cutting capers over -quipp  saucer”  8  ty
  ing came ~ from  a  “Mr.  Fellow revelers?
  esently he saw five more  4oe present phase  of
  rotating tobnd) a  quarters.
  Bs  Some” he sale ate  tucerisms: reached its ae
  them to the Bri  on
  March 9, ‘when
  for eae pene
  “Speculations. Stary 3  ing  too  much wi
  US, othersthat it is a Ri
  to the
  man, —

  in
  - discus  thrower
  (ee ours came) whofeet
  training  for  ae
  not  ow  own stirengt
  t photo;
  de
  The first flying saucer fever_
  died down under sheer weight
  ste
  vs fee  bul Repprts:
  i came in.
WASHINGTON NEWS
 PAGE 6  wD?
  ean  haat
 IR, FORCE FINDS ‘FLYING SAUCERS’—This is Jonathan’E. Caldwell’s
  “Gray Goose” helicopter
pictured before it made a near-disastrous test flight of  about  a minute  in Washington nearly}
0 years ago.  Ns  ,

  Washington Star

  Page A 18
Washington Star
 Page A 18
  Lope B. A. Tames
  /  Mr. Tolson.

  ‘éers—Some @e ’Em and Some Dod  Mr.

Gander for Saucers  a
  Mr. Tracy.

  FW Chief Awaiting Message
  Mr. Carson
  Mr. Egan.

  rom Capital on Flying Discs __  Mr. Gurnea,

  Mr. Harbo,
| he national leader of the Vet*,
  ¥  x  *

  Mr. Hendon
jerans of Foreign Wars said yester  Mr. Jones
Jday in Columbus, Ohio, that he)
  .  Pennington
was momentarily expecting word
from Washington which would ex-  +  Quinn  Tamm_

plain the “flying saucers” mystery.
  Louis ©. Starr, national commander of the VFW, told the Ohio!
State  encampment  of  the  VFW
:that he might haye “within a few]  §
  Post Stait Photo
hours” an explanation from Wash-|  DAVID ATAMIAN,
lington. He had expected the mes-|  1a,, Friens
  if 5160 Shoemaker
|sage at 3 p. m.  but it did not ar
\vivg, he said.  |  ip Heights, Md., said he sa’
  ‘Froo little is being told the peo-)  vee or four flying discs Fry
plq of this country,” Starr told the  day about midnight
defrgates.
  undreds of persons in about
30' States have reported seeing
fhe  silvery  .saucer-shaped  discs.
speeding through the skies at tremendous speeds.
  An exhaustive check with the
War Department and other agencies disclosed last night that no
new formation  was available  in
Washington.  No one knew anything.  But  a  new  tendency  to|  —
take the reports a bit more se-|
riously was apparent.  As the
mystification waxed, the scoffing|
waned.
  Some of the mystery missiles] ”  ssocialed Pross WIRKEHOTO
may have passed over Washington] 1S 1T?2—Coast Guardsman Frank
Friday night at about midnight.  Ryman, 27, made this picture
  David Atamian, 5160 Shoemaker  with a  Speed  Graphie camera
lane, Friendship Heights, Ma., re-  from the  front porch of his
ported that he had seen three
or four of the flying saucers trav-  Seattle,  Wash.,  residence.  It
cling northward at a rapid rate of shows, says Ryan, a “white sauspeed at about that time,  He said  cer” (arrow) that is neither an
  were at an altitude of between  airplane, a cloud, nor a silver
 i400 and 2000 feet and appeared  So, is it a “flapjack” or
td be of a bright, bluish hue.
  balloon,
  he flying saucers produced a a saucer? Or maybe a bottle
seties of speculations and at- cap? Photo is enlarged about  THIS IS NOT ONE OF ’EM, SAYS THE
  NAVY—tThe “flying
  20 times) 2
See SAUCERS, Page 3, Column 2,  paneake,” a wingless plane developed by the Navy,
  is th he only
  plane it has which might resemble the reported “ying
  cers,” but officials in Washington said yesterday Hie tu
  strange-looking aircraft has never left Bridgeport, 6 a
  thorities are still skeptical that the mystery missil oH, is
  een seen in the skies over the West Coast fils
  East as the Carolinas are any sort of new airplane  ‘
  4

  R800, IED be 200 4-4
  2
  2.

  4]
  JUL 28 1947
  WASHINGTON POST

  & 3=M
  Page_l=M
  =
  apt  iy Duvall,/assistant’suy
  pnt:  of the Nayal Obs  _

  ory, ©  that the saucer “does| hot,
  eem to be an eeeonntgal  e-|
  mena.”  i
  Credence in the saucers—widely.
  laughed ‘off at their first reported
  appearance June 25—grew as hun-/
  FW Chief Awaiting Message trained fliers, reported seeing)  dreds of observers, some of them)

  them,  PY]
  rom Capital on Flying Dises | A crowd of 200 observed a disc
  ]

  ‘at Hauser Lake, Idaho, Friday and
tempted explanations throughout! Guard, announced that the guard’s \@ group of 60 picnickers saw them
the country yesterday,  squadron would attempt to photo-
  Jat Twin Falls, Idaho,  And in
  A  Los  Angeles © newspaper graph any future apparitions of the Portland, Oreg., so many residents|
quoted  an unidentified scientist discs,  He  said  six  P-51  fighter’
  witnessed them that same day the!
in nuclear physics at the California| planes, equipped with gun and tele- police department
  sent out an a’
Institute of Technology as saying: scopic cameras, would be kept cars broadcast.
the flying discs have resulted  from  ready  to take off on  a moment's
  The crew of a United Airlings
experiments in “transmutation of| notice.  plane said seyeral of the rounll,
atomic energy” being conducted at  Col. F. J. Clark, commanding flat objects were visible for abo&t
Muroe Lake, Calif., White Sands, officer of the Hanford Engineering} 12 minutes.  ve
N.  Mex.;  Portland,  Oreg.,  and Works in the Pacific  Northwest
elsewhere,  where the largest saucer influx has
  The scientist, whom the news-| been  reported,  said  the  saucers
paper said had worked as a re- Were not coming from the atomic
searcher  on  the  atomic  bomb plant there.
“Manhattan Project,” was quoted  .“I have been waiting for someas saying:  one to  tie the discs to the Han-
  “People are not seeing things. ford atomic plant,” he said. He!
Such fiying discs actually are in’ declared that as far as he knew
experimental existence.  no experiments were under way)
  “These saucers so-called are there which would explain the
capable of high speeds but they mystery.
‘can be controlled from the ground. Two Chicago astronomers said
  “They are 20 feet in width at the discs are probably “man-
  e center and are partially rocket- made.”
  opelled on the takeoff.”  “They couldn't be meteors,” said
  However, other scientists were Dr. Girard Kiuper, ditector of
SKeptical about the claims of the  the University of Chicago's Yerkes  |
utaamed California physicist. Dr. Observatory at Williams Bay, Wis,
Harold Urey, famed atomic scien-'  Dr.
  Kee, director of Oliver
tist at the University of Chicago, Northwestern University’s Dear-|
said the term  “transmutation of, born Observatory, said:  |
atomie energy” is “gibberish.”  ‘We realize that the Army and’
  “You can transmute metals, but: Navy are working on all sorts of
not energy,” and Dr, Urey.  things we know nothing about.”
  David  Lilienthal,  chairman  of  He said the mystery disks may’
the Atomic Energy Commission, represent an accomplishment simi-|
declared the unexplained discs are) lar to that of sending radar sigin no way connected with atomic, nals to the moon,” one of the greatexperiments, Lilienthal said he est technological achievements of|
couldn’t shed any light on the the war and accomplished in abso-'
mystery and added:  lute secrecy,”
  “Until someone has the facts)  Here in Washington, Dr. New:
about this phenomenon, “I can’t! bern Smith’ of the National Bureay
  of
  Standards expressed the opinioy
\see how anyone can say anything)
  ‘that all the excitement is akin to}
 definite about it.”
  “those Loch Ness Monster stories."#
  And Dr. C. C. Lauritsen, head,
  The only  comment offered  by!
of the nuclear physics department
at California Institute of Technology, said he was certain nobody
in his department, which includes
four former Manhattan Project
researchers including himself, had
made “such a statement.”  |
  He expressed the opinion that
the discs “have nothing to do with
nuclear physics.”
  Strangely enough, the Murco,
Calif., Army Air Base, identified as
one of the sites where the “secret
experiments”  are being  carried
out, announced that it bad a P/BO
fifter plane standing by to  gife
cljase if one
  of the flying sauceps
  fe an appearance,
  ol, AL Dutton, comm
officer  the Oregon  nal
  JUL  6 1947
  WASHINGTON POST
  Page 1-M & 3-M
é  ®
  SAUCERS—From rage 1  K
  LTE

  Flying Dises
  Interest AAF >
  it as a bright, silvery disc, travel-
  ing at 10,000 feet.
  “Tt  was  clearly  visible—and
  then it wasn’t there.”
  ‘The FBI here was noncommittal.
  In Milwaukee, Wis., the FBI said
  it was “not interested” in what
  appeared to be a circular saw,
  rigged with a few wires, which the
  Rev, Joseph Brasku said crashed
  jinto. his yard at Grafton, Wis. He
  ladmitted it probably was a joke,
  |but was holding the dise for FBI's
  attention.
  Atomic experts in session at
  ‘Lake Success, N. Y., did not dis-
  cuss officially the  flying saucer’

  Flying Saucers Traced
  To Wife’s Pitching Arm
  Pittsburgh, July 7 (P).—Man
  persons have seen the mysteriou:
  “flying saucers,”  but Connic
  uinbar, 35, knows the source 0}
  Ihe ones he saw.
  Dunbar,  who  said  he  was
  truck by saucers thrown by his
  wife, Mrs. Bessie Dunbar, was
  granted a divorce today by Judge
  Harry H. Roward.

  reports, but made no secret of
  their interest. They were reported
  as “baffled.”
  Not so was  a 34-year-old watch-
  maker in Chattanooga, Tenn., who
  ‘said he invented the flying saucer
  in 1943 but “got tired of the run-
  around” when he tried to peddle
  it to the Government or an air-
  jeraft concern,  His model was
  ‘powered with a rubber band,
  A $1000 reward was posted in
  \Northbrook, IL, “for the capture
  of a flying dise—or the true ex-
  planation of the phenomena.” The
  offer, made by E, J. Culligan, is
  made “solely through an interest
  in science.”  )
  A theory that the saucers might
  be artificial satellites came from)
  the British physicist Prof, A..M,
  Low. The artificial satellite, he ex-
  plained, might be created by un-
  known scientists and could serve
  many purposes, such as deflecting
  ‘television or radar beams,
  Lester P. Barlow, a Stamfor
  mn., inventor, said he: believe
  ¢ dises are jet-propelled missil
  hfeing manufactured for the Nar
  ly the Martin Aireraft Co.
  jaltimore.  q
  squ_in_the sky. She is the firsttports of strange objects sech in
  known observer to claim what she|the sky and had reached thejcon-
  saw was stationary. All the rest|clusion that some sort of mejeor-
  have spoken of tremendous speeds. |ites were responsible.
  Mrs. Kole said all she could think| Astronomers at the Naval ob-
  of was a blazing disc. Alexandria|servatory and Georgetown uni-
  police looked in the direction she|versity, who admitted they have
  indicated but the disc had gone.  |been  on  the  alert  for  flying
  Jack Labous,  an  artist,  3600|Saucers as they swept the skies
  block East Capitol St., reported with their powerful telescopes, in-
  seeing one of the “things” flying sisted they not only had not seen’
  any but knew of no astronomical
  over Bethesda. He described it as
  “a flat disc with  a cone shape theory that might account for the,
  reports.
  under it and a stick like a radio
  Kenneth Arnold, the privat,
  antenna  projecting  from  the
  pilot who was first to announe
  bottom,”  seeing the saucers, expressed groti
  The scientist who claimed to fication: at the support he  ys
  know something about the getting but insisted he still did
  “saucers” was described by a Los believe he had seen nine discs
  Angeles newspaper as  a member whizzing by at 1,200 miles an
  of  the  California  of hour, although he had seen them.
  Institute
  ‘Technology staff.  Arnold started yesterday on #
  flying fishing trip over the Pa-
  May Be Real, He Says  cific northwest armed with a nev
  camera in the hope of gettin’
  He was quoted as saying “trans- Pictures if he  encountered any
  mutation  of  atomic energy”  ex- more saucers.  He took along Col,
  periments might ‘be responsible. Paul W. Weiland, World War II
  He was said to have been a re- artillery officer, just in case he
  searcher on the Manhattan proj-  sees  some  more  and  needs  a
  ect that made the atom bomb, and witness.
  was quoted as saying:  Arnold announced he has been
  “These so-called saucers are ca-
  ideao'Tajepnbts  getting tons of letters commenting}
  pable of high speed but can be on his report of the saucers. Man:

  Can This Be the Secret?  controlled from the ground. They
  are 20 feet wide in the center and
  |of them predict they are the fot
  runner of an atom bomb attaciS
 mder discussion as a possible solution to shownthe “sauper’  are partially rocket propelled on
  |One correspondent blamed ther)
  ystery is the  Navy ’s “Flyin g Flapj ack,”  L aljpye.  the take off. People are not seeing
  things. Such flying discs actually
  on survivors of the lost continent

Aipping along with its landing  gear retrac ted, this  jane  are in experimental existence.
  of Atlantis who are preparing f

sould seem to  be a supper plate spinnin g through  the  sky.  Experiments with these “discs” an atomic war in 1960.
  Army, Navy and civil aeron:
  were reported as being in progress
  at Muroc Dry Lake, Calif.; White  tics officials agreed none of the;
  Sands, N. M.; Portland, Oreg., and  had  any  reliable  informati(
  other places.  about the discs and would
  Dr. Harold Urey, atom scientist frain from commenting until th9
  at the University of Chicago, com- saw one, or at least a picture.
  mented:  “Transmutation  of
  atomic energy sounds like gibber-
  ish. You can transmute metals, not
  energy.”
  Col. F. J. Clarke, in command
  of the Hanford Engineering works
  of the atomic energy project, said
  he knew of no experiments inyolv-
  ing “flying saucers.”
  “I have been waiting several
  days for someone to get the idea
  the so-called flying saucers were
  tied up in some way with what we
  are doing,” Clarke said.  “But as
  far as I know, there is no connec-
  tion.”
  _The “piece” found in Ohio was
  discovered near Circleville, Tt was
  a six-pointed star covered with tin-
  foil and attached to part of a hal-
  Joon. It was reported to be a device
  used by the Army air forces in
  radar  research to check  on  high
  wind speeds. There was no com.
  ment from the air forces.
  A War Department spokesmdn
  revealed  Army  intelligence  hhs
  Ss
  oxerorking for  a  year  on

  JUL  6 1947
  WASHINGTON TIMES-HERALD
  Page  1&8 Sec. 1
 JUL  5 1947
WASHINGTON NEWS
  PAGE 5
