4-896 (REV. 11-20-73)
FBI - CENTRAL RECORDS CENTER
HQ - HEADQUARTERS
Class / Case #: 0062 83894
Sub: <empty>
Vol.: 8
Serial #: 344 384
8/11/1274184
RRP003IXGQ
ent of Justice
FOR
PA
62-HQ-83894
SECTION 8
SERIALS 344-384
*62-HQ-83894-8*
+
BUREAU
ER
NOT
STROY
T
FOIPA #: 993087
COPIED
INVESTIGATION
DO NOT
DESTROY
NÖV 3 1978 BY
SECTION 8
SERIALS 344-384
COPIED FOR
FOIPA
MAY 4 1977 BY <signature>
COPIED FOR
FOIPA # <empty>
F O I P A
MAY 14 1977 BY <signature>
USE CARE IN HANDLING THIS FILE
COPIED FOR
Trans
FOIPPA
JAN 18 1979 BY F420
fer-Call 3421
Sq 346, 353, 362 : 384
COPIED FOR
FOIPA
APR 14 1978 BY R330
281
<table><tr><th colspan="5">DFOR FUTPA</th></tr><tr><td>ALS</td><td>REQUESTERS FULL AME</td><td>COMPUTER
NUMBER</td><td>DATE</td><td>BY</td></tr><tr><td>349;350</td><td>Parks, Bran</td><td>263,552</td><td>7/25/80</td><td>95</td></tr><tr><td>3214</td><td>Richard Toronto</td><td>267, 191</td><td>5/09/24</td><td>₤45</td></tr><tr><td>380</td><td>Brian Parks</td><td>263553/23/86</td><td></td><td></td></tr><tr><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td></tr><tr><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td></tr><tr><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td></tr><tr><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td></tr></table>

STANDARD FORM NO. 64

Office Memorandum • UNITEL STATES GOVERNMENT

to : Director, FBI (62-83894)
DATE: 7/22/54
FROM: SAC, Cincinnati (65-1994)
SUBJECT: TRUMAN BETHURUM;
FLYING DISCS
MISCELLANEOUS - INFORMATION CONCERNING
(ESPIONAGE)
Remylet 6/8/54 and Bulet 6/22/54.
Attached are five copies of a memorandum containing information set out in my letter of June 8, 1954 with additional information furnished by THOMAS EICKHOFF on July 2, 1954.
On July 2, 1954, although EICKHOFF had been so advised at the time of the original interview with him on June 7, 1954, he was again advised in accordance with instructions in reBulet.
RCD:SAS
REGISTERED MAIL
ENCLOSURES (5)
On
AGENCY/1 Cc encl OSI (O-14)
REQ. REC'D / 1 cc encl RAB (O6a)
DATE FORW. 8/3/54
HOW FORW. R/S
BY EHM/ehd

b
f454
AUG 4 1954

OPIES DESTROYED
70 NOV 19 1964

RECORDED - 79
INDEXED - 79
62 - 83894 - 344
JUL 26 1954
EX-127
EHM
Mohlberg
UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT
Office-National-geographic
(46328-22) 18N, 46328-22
(1991-26) Attention: SAG, Screen Actors Guild
BASIC ANNUITY
(ПОДПИСЬ) ИЗГОТОВИТЕЛЯ - ТЕХНОЛОГИИ СОПРОТИВЛЕНИЯ
Boulevard de l'8 Mai 1945 à Issy-les-Moulineaux
moleskinoen s'io helgoc avil eza hedensta
o snall so rödIgur mi duo Jea noitesmoini gatmabroo
8MÖLByrd bedaImIi holtsmoini Iaroffibba dIby JÖR
.JÖR ,S vIrt no TROMMEN
mead and WUHRT & cooffe , PER S gift m
BAG: 100
ILAN CERESOR
(2) 43320302
2021.07.04
DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE
FBI
SECRET ESPIONAGE
2 AUG 9:59 AM 54
Jul. 30 4:08 PM 9:11
RECD ESPIONAGE
H. G. I
U S DEPT OF JUSTICE

TRUMAN BETHURUM
FLYING DISCS

On June 7, 1954, Mr. Thomas Eickhoff, 3721 Tappan Avenue, Cincinnati 23, Ohio, Operator of Tom's Beauty Salon, Neave Building, Fourth and Race Streets, Cincinnati, Ohio, advised that although he belongs to no organization interested in flying saucers or discs, he has been interested in this subject.
He said on June 3, 1954 an ad appeared in "The Cincinnati Enquirer", a newspaper of general circulation in Cincinnati, Ohio, to the effect that on June 11, 1954 a program would be presented at the Taft Auditorium in Cincinnati, Ohio on "the real flying saucer story." Mr. Eickhoff advised that this advertisement disclosed no sponsor for this program and it was only noted on the ad that tickets for the program sold for $2.00 per person and would be on sale at the Central Ticket Office in Cincinnati.
Mr. Eickhoff continued that because of his interest in the subject of flying saucers, he desired to know the sponsor of the program and found out from the Central Ticket Office that the ad had been placed by Henry Maday, 364 West Lewiston Avenue, Ferndale 20, Michigan. He said he telephonically contacted Maday on June 3, 1954 and found that Maday was only the agent having rented the Taft Auditorium and that he was acting on behalf of Truman Bethurum and George Hunt Williamson.
He continued that on June 4, 1954 Maday called him back and told him there had been a disagreement between Maday, Bethurum and Williamson over Maday's arrangement for the sale of tickets of the program and the renting of the auditorium. Eickhoff advised that Maday at no time said anything to discredit either Bethurum or Williamson and indicated that their disagreement concerned only Maday's placing the ad in "The Cincinnati Enquirer" prior to having tickets for the program available in Cincinnati.
62-83894-344
Ohio.
Mr. Eickhoff further related that about ten minutes after he had talked to Maday on Friday, June 4, 1954, he received a call from George Hunt Williamson and a Mr. Manspeaker, who confirmed to him that Maday was no longer associated with them, and asked that Eickhoff meet with them at a luncheon at the Terrace Plaza Hotel, Cincinnati, Ohio on June 7, 1954.
And.
Mr. Eickhoff, in explanation of his interest in this matter, advised that he had read such books as "Flying Saucers From Outer Space," written by Donald E. Kehoe, retired major, U. S. Marine Corps, which book was published by Harper's Publishers, and a book entitled "Flying Saucers Have Landed," by George Adamski, which book is published by Werner-Lowery Company in England, and is distributed by the British Book Center in New York City. He said that he has also heard broadcasts by persons he considers reputable news commentators, such as Walter Winchell, Fulton Lewis, Jr., and Frank Edwards, to the effect that reliable persons have reported observing flying discs or saucers. He said contrary to these reports, the U. S. Air Force has denied the existence of the flying saucer and he felt that persons such as Truman Bethurum and George Hunt Williamson, in presenting a program such as that contemplated, were either truthful or they were frauds. He stated that if they had a true story to tell, then he felt it was of such nature that it should be given as wide a distribution as possible, so that the people might learn the true facts regarding flying discs. He said, however, if their story was not true, then the holding of such a meeting as was contemplated would be a fraud on the general public. He estimated that such a meeting in Cincinnati might draw two thousand people, which, at $2.00 apiece, would result in a $4,000.00 take for the promoters.
To identify Truman Bethurum, Mr. Eickhoff had with him two copies of the magazine "Valor," which he stated he got from Bethurum, this magazine being self-identified as the "Golden Times Weekly," published by Soul Craft Chapels, Post Office Box 192, Noblesville, Indiana. The two issues which Mr. Eickhoff had with him were numbers 15 and 16 of volume 6 of the publication, the number 15 being
dated February 6, 1954 and number 16 being dated February 13, 1954. The number 15 issue contained an article concerning Truman Bethurum, in which he is identified as a truck driver from Redondo Beach, California, and it refers to an article dated December 31, 1953, which appeared in the "Daily Breeze," a newspaper at Redondo Beach, California, which allegedly contained a description of an encounter which Truman Bethurum had with a crew of assumed space explorers under the super-vision of a ravishing woman commandant in the Nevada desert. The article also reflects that Truman Bethurum allegedly was aboard flying saucers on eleven occasions. At the bottom of the first page of issue number 15 there appeared in what Mr. Eickhoff stated was the handwriting of Truman Bethurum the statement "This is a true story, a factual experience -- Truman Bethurum."
The above mentioned article in "Valor" also reflected that Truman Bethurum is 55 years of age and that his residence address is 519 North Gertruda Avenue, Redondo Beach, California.
Mr. Eickhoff reiterated that he felt Bethurum's story, if true, should be given wide publicity, but that if the story was false, then he should be prosecuted for fraud. He stated that he first took his information to the Air Force in the person of Lieutenant Colonel John O'Mara of Wright-Patterson Air Force Base, Ohio, whom Eickhoff visited personally at O'Mara's home in Fairborn, Ohio, on Sunday, June 6, 1954. Eickhoff indicated that he asked Colonel O'Mara if there were such things as flying saucers and if Bethurum's story could be true, and he said O'Mara denied that there was such a thing as a flying saucer and indicated to him that Donald E. Kehoe, the author of "Flying Saucers in Outer Space" was a fraud and that information is available in Washington that Kehoe is a fraud. He said he was advised, however, by Colonel O'Mara that the Air Force could take no action with respect to Bethurum or Williamson.
Eickhoff continued that it was his intention to aid in the promotion of a meeting for Bethurum in Cincinnati. He advised that the original meeting schedule for June 11
had been cancelled, and that he felt this meeting had such important information for the people as a whole that he was going to make every effort to make the meeting one of national significance. He said he intended to invite to the meeting all nationally prominent news commentators. He intended to try to get radio time to advertise the meeting but he did not wish to participate in this matter in any way if it would violate security regulations in any manner, or if Bethurum and his associates were in any way fraudulent. He stated that he so informed Bethurum, Williamson and Mr. Manspeaker at the luncheon meeting which was held at the Terrace Plaza Hotel on June 7, 1954. They informed him that they were not afraid of an investigation; that Bethurum's story was factual, and that they had no objection to Eickhoff's advising Government authorities regarding it.
Mr. Eickhoff stated that his report to this office was part of his plan to inform all the Federal agencies he thought should know about the activities of Bethurum. He advised that in line with his contemplated plans that on the evening of June 7, 1954 there was to be another meeting at the home of L. H. Stringfield, 7017 Britton Avenue, Cincinnati 27, Ohio, at which meeting there would be Mr. Stringfield, Williamson, Manspeaker, Bethurum, Ralph Zimmermann and Mr. Eickhoff. He said at this meeting they would plan a method of operation and make arrangements for this meeting of national significance. He said he intended to set the date of the meeting far enough in advance so that if any Governmental agency determined that there was fraud involved that agency would have sufficient time to act prior to the holding of the meeting. He advised he intended to keep a detailed record of all actions taken by this group, and that he would voluntarily furnish such information to the F.B.I.
Eickhoff advised that he had not known and had not met either Bethurum, Williamson or Manspeaker prior to the events described above. He said that George Hunt Williamson identified himself as an archeologist and a writer for the magazine "Valor," who resides in Noblesville, Indiana.
He said that Manspeaker, whose first name he did not know, is also connected with "Valor" magazine in some way.
He was asked as to what interest "Valor" magazine has in Bethurum, and whether Bethurum was sponsored by any other organization. He advised that he did not know the interest of "Valor" magazine in Bethurum, and so far as he knew, Bethurum was acting on his own and had no organizational affiliations or sponsorship. He was asked as to what disposition would be made of receipts from a large meeting and he advised that he did not know what disposition would be made of the money. He said he understood that Bethurum had been on tour for some time and that the meeting scheduled for Cincinnati originally on June 11, 1954 was to be the beginning of a new series of meetings.
William Dudley-Pelley, Noblesville, Indiana reportedly operates the Soul Craft Press at Noblesville and among other pamphlets, published the weekly journal entitled "Valor", which Mr. Pelley describes as a "journal of the applied spirituality." This publication is said to deal mainly with practical mysticism, the spiritual movement called Soulcraft and the relationshop between earth man and the individuals arriving on this planet from flying saucers. Mr. Pelley is said to claim that these individuals arriving in flying saucers are of greater intelligence and learning than the earth people and are here to give the earth people intellectual guidance and spiritual endowment and guidance.
On July 2, 1954, Thomas Eickhoff advised that no progress had been made with respect to holding a meeting for Truman Bethurum in Cincinnati, Ohio which would be of national significance. He said that Bethurum had returned to California but that there was a possibility that he would again come to Cincinnati, Ohio in the fall of 1954. At the same time Mr. Eickhoff advised that he had communicated with Donald E. Kehoe, author of the book "Flying Saucers From Outer Space" and had advised him that he had been informed by Lieutenant Colonel John O'Mara, Wright-Patterson Air Force Base, Ohio that he was a fraud and that information is avail-
able in Washington that Kehoe is a fraud. He said that he, Eickhoff, had been requested by Kehoe to furnish him this information in writing and that he, Eickhoff, had obliged Kehoe in this respect. He said he understood that Kehoe was going to Washington with his attorneys to take up Colonel O'Mara's statements with the Air Force.

STANDARD FORM NO. 64

Office Memorandum
UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

TO: Director, FBI
DATE: 8/2/54
FROM: SAC, Cincinnati (62-0)
SUBJECT: FLYING SAUCER REPORT
INFORMATION CONCERNING
Colonel J. M. SMITH, Deputy Director of Civilian Defense for Greater Cincinnati and Hamilton County, Ohio, called this office on 7/23/54 to report that he had received a report of a flying saucer from Mr. CARL R. KEYSER, Route 1, Milford, Ohio. Mr. KEYSER said that he could be reached at his residence which is two miles east of Milford, Ohio, on U. S. Highway 28.
KEYSER reported to Colonel SMITH that both he and his wife, at approximately 2:40 p.m. on 7/23/54, had observed a silver circular or spherical shape in the sky which was located to the southeast of their residence, approximately forty-five degrees above the horizon.
Colonel SMITH was advised that the report made by him was being referred to the appropriate officials of the United States Air Force.
I have advised the local office of the Office of Special Investigations at Wright-Patterson Air Force Base of the above.
me
RDH:BL
RECORDED - 154
62-83894 - 345
INDEXED - 154
24 AUG 5 1954
EX-130
NOTED <signature>
61 AUG 11 1954

STANDARD FORM NO. 64

Office Memorandum
UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

DATE: 8/2/54
TO : DIRECTOR, FBI
FROM : SAC, WFO (62-0)
O FLYING SAUCERS
<signature>
SUBJECT: Mrs. FRANCES SWAN
MISCELLANEOUS - INFORMATION CONCERNING
<signature>
This interview is predicated upon a telephone call received by SAC L. L. LAUGHLIN on 7/29/54 from JOHN HUTSON, Security Officer, Bureau of Aeronautics, U. S. Navy Department.
On the same date JOHN HUTSON was interviewed in Room 2912, Main Navy Building. Also present during the interview was Commander L. T. McQUISTON, USN. HUTSON and McQUISTON furnished the following information:
They advised that the Office of Naval Intelligence had forwarded a file to the Bureau of Aeronautics with enclosures which had been received from retired Admiral HERBERT B. KNOWLES of South Berwick, Maine. According to HUTSON and McQUISTON, KNOWLES resided near Mrs. FRANCES SWAN who had been receiving messages through thought transmission. SWAN approached KNOWLES and advised him that "flying saucers" were here to help mankind. Information received by HUTSON indicated that KNOWLES became interested in the messages received by Mrs. SWAN and felt that the matter should be investigated by the Government.
HUTSON advised that KNOWLES wrote to Admiral ESPEY, Director of Naval Intelligence, on 6/1/54 enclosing some of the messages received by Mrs. SWAN. Receiving no reply to his original communication, KNOWLES again wrote ONI on 6/7/54. HUTSON advised that the first letter that KNOWLES wrote to ONI contained information that Mrs. SWAN was receiving messages through thought control from "outer space" and wrote them down as she received them. The letter, according to HUTSON, stated that Mrs. SWAN would write without any effort on her part and would write continuously for four or five hours at a time without getting tired. He stated that ONI had in their possession the transmissions or messages that had been received by Mrs. SWAN.
delete
HUTSON stated that ONI had advised that in the absence of any definite evidence of conversations, they would do nothing in the matter. He also stated that the Bureau of Aeronautics took no official action in
CAG:jfs
2 - Boston
RECORDED - 150
INDEXED - 150
EX. - 109
62-83894-346
8-10
12 AUG 3 1954
8/2/54
Substance furnd t
Cdr. Dace Share
OSI
ONI
G-2
RAB
8-9-54
EHM
BrakBaw
EyEBre
EXP. PROC
:
Office of Management and Budget - UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT
DATE:: 8/2/54
TO: DIRECTOR, FBI
FROM: SAC, WFO (62-0)
SUBJECT:: Mrs. FRANCES SWAN
MISCELLANEOUS - INFORMATION CONCERNING
Kerensky U.S. Navy Department, Washington, D.C., July 22, 1921.
HISTORY: HISTORIC and MOBILTON furnished the following information: Also present during the interview was Commander J. W. Anderson. On the same date, JOHN HUBSON was interviewed in Room 2012. Main
in the possession of the Government. Information received by the Government from individuals or organizations which has been received by the Government from individuals or organizations which has been received by the Government from individuals or organizations which has been received by the Government from individuals or organizations which has been received by the Government from individuals or organizations which has been received by the Government from individuals or organizations which has been received by the Government from individuals or organizations which has been received by the Government from individuals or organizations which has been received by the Government from individuals or organizations which has been received by the Government from individuals or organizations which has been received by the Government from individuals or organizations which has been received by the Government from individuals or organizations which has been received by the Government from individuals or organizations which has been received by the Government from individuals or organizations which has been received by the Government from individuals or organizations which has been received by the Government from individuals or organizations which has been received by the Government from individuals or organizations which has been received by the Government from individuals or organizations which has been received by the Government from individuals or organizations which has been received by the Government from individuals or organizations which has been received by the Government from individuals or organizations which has been received by the Government from individuals or organizations which has been received by the Government from individuals or organizations which has been received by the Government from individuals or organizations which has been received by the Government from individuals or organizations which has been received by the Government from individuals or organizations which has been received by the Government from individuals or organizations which has been received by the Government from individuals or organizations which has been received by the Government from individuals or organizations which has been received by the Government from individuals or organizations which has been received by the Government from individuals or organizations which has been received by the Government from individuals or organizations which has been received by the Government from individuals or organizations which has been received by the Government from individuals or organizations which has been received by the Government from individuals or organizations which has been received by the Government from individuals or organizations which has been received by the Government from individuals or organizations which has been received by the Government from individuals or organizations which has been received by the Government from individuals or organizations which has been received by the Government from individuals or organizations which has been received by the Government from individuals or organizations which has been received by the Government from individuals or organizations which has been received by the Government from individuals or organizations which has been received by the Government from individuals or organizations which has been received by the Government from individuals or organizations which has been received by the Government from individuals or organizations which
by Mr. S. M. Receiving no reply to the original communication, IWM-25, which was received on 6/12/51 enclosed some of the messages received by this station from the Life and Casualty system. IWM-25 was received on 6/12/51 enclosed some of the messages received by this station from the Life and Casualty system. IWM-25 was received on 6/12/51 enclosed some of the messages received by this station from the Life and Casualty system. IWM-25 was received on 6/12/51 enclosed some of the messages received by this station from the Life and Casualty system. IWM-25 was received on 6/12/51 enclosed some of the messages received by this station from the Life and Casualty system. IWM-25 was received on 6/12/51 enclosed some of the messages received by this station from the Life and Casualty system. IWM-25 was received on 6/12/51 enclosed some of the messages received by this station from the Life and Casualty system. IWM-25 was received on 6/12/51 enclosed some of the messages received by this station from the Life and Casualty system. IWM-25 was received on 6/12/51 enclosed some of the messages received by this station from the Life and Casualty system. IWM-25 was received on 6/12/51 enclosed some of the messages received by this station from the Life and Casualty system. IWM-25 was received on 6/12/51 enclosed some of the messages received by this station from the Life and Casualty system. IWM-25 was received on 6/12/51 enclosed some of the messages received by this station from the Life and Casualty system. IWM-25 was received on 6/12/51 enclosed some of the messages received by this station from the Life and Casualty system. IWM-25 was received on 6/12/51 enclosed some of the messages received by this station from the Life and Casualty system. IWM-25 was received on 6/12/51 enclosed some of the messages received by this station from the Life and Casualty system
Aug 3 9:54 AM 9/1
U.S. DEPT OF JUSTICE
FBI
CLIAISON SECTION
RECEIVED

WFO 62-0
delete
in the matter. HUTSON was questioned concerning the position that the Bureau of Aeronautics had taken and he remarked that he did not believe that this was pertinent. After further questioning, he subsequently stated that the Bureau of Aeronautics was of the belief that this was a matter for ONI.
delete
HUTSON stated that he "unofficially" became interested in the matter and at the invitation of Admiral KNOWLES, he went to South Berwick, Maine, where he spent 7/24,25,26/54 in the residence of Admiral KNOWLES. HUTSON stated that he informed Admiral SAUCEK, his superior in the Bureau of Aeronautics, that he was going to visit Admiral KNOWLES.
HUTSON stated that inasmuch as KNOWLES had received no response from the Government concerning this matter, he began reading books on flying saucers. HUTSON advised that during the time that he was a house guest of Admiral KNOWLES, there was also present WILBER B.SMITH, a Physicist of the Canadian Government who was also interested in flying saucers. HUTSON stated that SMITH was at KNOWLES' residence with his family and was there in an unofficial capacity.
CANADA
ME
HUTSON advised that during his stay, he and SMITH had various interviews with Mrs. SWAN and had had contact with the "outer space" through Mrs. SWAN. During the interview with Mrs. SWAN and the contact with "outer space," HUTSON stated that they sat in a group and he observed Mrs. SWAN writing messages that she was receiving from someone in "outer space." According to HUTSON, SWAN informed him that the people from "outer space" could use her eyes and ears to see and hear. According to SWAN, this is accomplished by the use of a mechanical device and all conversations are recorded by the people in "outer space." HUTSON indicated as an example as to how messages were relayed, he stated that he asked Mrs. SWAN a question which she was to relay to the people in "outer space" and before she had time to relay the question, she began writing the answer down to his question on paper.
HUTSON stated that SWAN informed him that whenever she was to have contact with the people in "outer space," she would get a buzzing sound in her left ear to indicate that they were "on the line." HUTSON stated that Mrs. SWAN complained to the people in "outer space" that this buzzing sound gets very annoying and painful to her ear. She also stated that the messages had been coming since May 27, 1954, and would come at all times of the night and consequently she was losing a great deal of sleep. According to HUTSON, Mrs. SWAN arranged a schedule with the people in "outer space" so that the messages would not interfere with her sleep. HUTSON advised that a schedule was arranged between SWAN and the people in "outer space" that she would receive messages on the following schedule: 8:00 in the morning, 12 noon, 6:00 in the evening, every day of the week.
[x]
:
WFO 62-0
XSWAN ME
me
HUTSON stated that Mrs. SWAN's husband, GUY SWAN, and their daughter, DAWLYN, had also heard the buzzing sound in their ears, but have not been able to receive transmissions or messages. HUTSON stated that the transmissions related to flying saucers, location and why they were here, life on other planets, and life in the hereafter, and prophesies in the Bible. HUTSON advised that Mrs. SWAN could contact people in "outer space" by mental thought control.
According to HUTSON, Mrs. SWAN stated that there were two space ships from which she had been receiving messages. They were described as 150 miles wide, 200 miles in length, and 100 miles in depth. HUTSON stated that these ships are designated as M-4 and L-11 and they also contain mother ships which measure approximately 150 to 200 feet in length. HUTSON related that SWAN had informed him that there were approximately 5,000 of these mother ships. He stated that "AFFA" is the Manager or the Commander of the ship M-4 which is from the planet Uranus and "PONNAR" is the Manager or the Commander of the ship L-11 which is from the planet Hatann. HUTSON related that Mrs. SWAN stated that these contacts with "AFFA" and "PONNAR" were for the purpose of protecting our own earth from destruction caused by the explosion of the atom bomb, hyrdrogen bomb, and wars of various kinds which they, "AFFA" and "PONNAR," say disrupt the magnetic field of force which surrounds the earth. HUTSON stated that Mrs. SWAN also related that contact was made for the purpose of protecting the whole universe because if the "fault lines" break or go to pieces, it would effect the entire universe. According to Mrs. SWAN, HUTSON stated, "AFFA" and "PONNAR" are presently working in the area of the Pacific Ocean repairing "fault lines" which are in danger of breaking.
HUTSON stated that both he and SMITH were looking for proof and they wanted to know whether they could contact the man from "outer space." According to HUTSON, SWAN advised that he and SMITH could make contact in "outer space" on any frequency provided they informed her first of the frequency that they were to use so that she could advise the people in "outer space." HUTSON stated that in connection with his contacting "outer space," he could make no commitment as he did not know how far the Navy would go. He advised, however, that SMITH stated that he would try to make contact with "outer space" on Sunday, August 1, 1954, and was going to use a high frequency. HUTSON stated that to make sure that contact was made, Mrs. SWAN advised that the ship from "outer space" would come within 100 miles of Ottawa, Canada, so that SMITH would have no difficulty in making his contact.
HUTSON stated that Admiral KNOWLES wanted to know if physical contact could be had with the people in "outer space." SWAN advised HUTSON and KNOWLES that the people in "outer space" wanted to know if they could provide them protection and that if physical contact were to be made, they would appear in a force which would consist of 5,000 "bells" or "flying saucers."
WFO 62-0
According to Mrs. SWAN, these "bells" or "flying saucers" would appear over many nations of the world during the latter part of August 1954, and would come close enough to the earth so that they could be seen by man and that they in turn would be able to see people on the street.
HUTSON stated that Admiral KNOWLES wrote a letter to MARGARET CHASE SMITH, Senator from Maine, concerning this information, who forwarded the information to the Secretary of Defense and copies were sent to the Army, Navy, and Air Force. According to HUTSON, KNOWLES also wrote a letter to the President of the United States.
delete
debo
HUTSON stated that none of the persons involved in this matter were interested in publicity. He stated that he would be willing to assist the Bureau in the investigation of this matter if the Bureau desired, inasmuch as he believed Mrs. SWAN and Admiral KNOWLES had confidence in him.
HUTSON described Mrs. FRANCES SWAN as being of middle-class circumstances, having a very modest home with furniture below middle-class. He stated that she has no more than a high school education, if she has that. He considered her to be a very simple minded person, religious, a student of the Bible, and one who has studied spiritualism and other thought control systems.
The above information is being made available to the Office of Special Invesitgations, United States Air Force, and no further action is being taken by this office.
42762
- 150
62-83894-346
EX.-109
Date: August 9, 1954
To: Director of Special Investigations
The Inspector General
Department of the Air Force
The Pentagon
Washington 25, D. C.
From: John Edgar Hoover, Director
Federal Bureau of Investigation
Subject: FLYING SAUCERS;
MRS. FRANCES SWAN
MISCELLANEOUS - INFORMATION CONCERNING
On July 29, 1954, Mr. John Hutson, Security Officer, Bureau of Aeronautics, United States Navy Department, and Commander L. T. McQuiston, United States Navy, furnished the following information to this Bureau.
They advised that the Office of Naval Intelligence had forwarded a file to the Bureau of Aeronautics with enclosures which had been received from retired Admiral Herbert B. Knowles of South Berwick, Maine. According to Hutson and McQuiston, Knowles resided near Mrs. Frances Swan who had been receiving messages through thought transmission. Swan approached Knowles and advised him that "flying saucers" were here to help mankind. Information received by Hutson indicated that Knowles became interested in the messages received by Mrs. Swan and felt that the matter should be investigated by the Government
Hutson advised that Knowles wrote to Admiral Espe, Director of Naval Intelligence, on June 1, 1954, enclosing some of the messages received by Mrs. Swan. Receiving no reply to his original communication, Knowles again wrote to the Director of Naval Intelligence on June 7, 1954. Hutson advised that the first letter that
Tolson: 
Boardman: 
Nichols: 
Belmont: 
Harbo: 
Mohr: 
Parsons: 
Rosen: 
Tamm: 
Sizoo: 
Winterrowd: 
Tele. Room: 
Holloman: 
Gandy:
6月2日
cc - 1 - Records Administration Branch (0-6a routing slip)
Attention: Internal Security Division (Same date)
AUG 18 1954
Cik
EKM:sjr:elk
AUG 9 1954
MAILED 19
रहन
ENM
Knowles wrote to the Director of Naval Intelligence contained information that Mrs. Swan was receiving messages through thought control from "outer space" and wrote them down as she received them. The letter, according to Hutson, stated that Mrs. Swan would write without any effort on her part and would write continuously for four or five hours at a time without getting tired. He stated that the Office of Naval Intelligence had in its possession the transmissions or messages that had been received by Mrs. Swan.
Hutson stated that he "unofficially" became interested in the matter and at the invitation of Admiral Knowles, he went to South Berwick, Maine, where he spent July 24, 25, 26, 1954, in the residence of Admiral Knowles.
Hutson stated that inasmuch as Knowles had received no response from the Government concerning this matter, he began reading books on flying saucers. Hutson advised that during the time that he was a house guest of Admiral Knowles, there was also present Wilber B. Smith, a Physicist of the Canadian Government who was also interested in flying saucers. Hutson stated that Smith was at Knowles' residence with his family and was there in an unofficial capacity.
Hutson advised that during his stay, he and Smith had various interviews with Mrs. Swan and had had contact with the "outer space" through Mrs. Swan. During the interview with Mrs. Swan and the contact with "outer space," Hutson stated that they sat in a group and he observed Mrs. Swan writing messages that she was receiving from someone in "outer space." According to Hutson, Swan informed him that people from "outer space" could use her eyes and ears to see and hear. According to Swan, this is accomplished by the use of a mechanical device and all conversations are recorded by the people in "outer space." Hutson indicated as an example as to how messages were relayed, he stated that he asked Mrs. Swan a question which she was to relay to the people in "outer space" and before she had time to relay the question, she began writing the answer down to his question on paper.
Hutson stated that Swan informed him that whenever she was to have contact with the people in "outer space," she would get a buzzing sound in her left ear to indicate that they were "on the line." Hutson stated that
Tolson <empty>
Boardman <empty>
Nichols <empty>
Belmont <empty>
Harbo <empty>
Mohr <empty>
Parsons <empty>
Rosen <empty>
Tamm <empty>
Sizoo <empty>
Winterrowd <empty>
Tele. Room <empty>
Holloman <empty>
Gandy <empty>

-2-
Mrs. Swan complained to the people in "outer space" that this buzzing sound gets very annoying and painful to her ear. She also stated that the messages had been coming since May 27, 1954, and would come at all times of the night and consequently she was losing a great deal of sleep. According to Hutson, Mrs. Swan arranged a schedule with the people in "outer space" so that the messages would not interfere with her sleep. Hutson advised that a schedule was arranged between Swan and the people in "outer space" that she would receive messages on the following schedule: 8:00 in the morning, 12 noon, 6:00 in the evening, every day of the week.
Hutson stated that Mrs. Swan's husband, Guy Swan, and their daughter, Dawlyn, had also heard the buzzing sound in their ears, but have not been able to receive transmissions or messages. Hutson stated that the transmissions related to flying saucers, location and why they were here, life on other planets, and life in the hereafter, and prophesies in the Bible. Hutson advised that Mrs. Swan could contact people in "outer space" by mental thought control.
According to Hutson, Mrs. Swan stated that there were two space ships from which she had been receiving messages. They were described as 150 miles wide, 200 miles in length, and 100 miles in depth. Hutson stated that these ships are designated as M-4 and L-11 and they also contain mother ships which measure approximately 150 to 200 feet in length. Hutson related that Swan had informed him that there were approximately 5,000 of these mother ships. He stated that "Affa" is the Manager or the Commander of the ship M-4 which is from the planet Uranus and "Ponnar" is the Manager or the Commander of the ship L-11 which is from the planet Hatann. Hutson related that Mrs. Swan stated that these contacts with "Affa" and "Ponnar" were for the purpose of protecting our own earth from destruction caused by the explosion of the atom bomb, hydrogen bomb, and wars of various kinds which they, "Affa" and "Ponnar," say disrupt the magnetic field of force which surrounds the earth. Hutson stated that Mrs. Swan also related that contact was made for the purpose of protecting the whole universe because if the "fault lines" break or go to pieces, it would affect the entire universe. According to Mrs. Swan, Hutson stated, "Affa" and "Ponnar" are presently working the area of the Pacific Ocean repairing "fault lines" which are in danger of breaking.
Tolson: <empty>
Boardman: <empty>
Nichols: <empty>
Belmont: <empty>
Harbo: <empty>
Mohr: <empty>
Parsons: <empty>
Rosen: <empty>
Tamm: <empty>
Sizoo: <empty>
Winterrowd: <empty>
Tele. Room: <empty>
Holloman: <empty>
Gandy: <empty>

-3-
Hutson stated that both he and Smith were looking for proof and they wanted to know whether they could contact the man from "outer space." According to Hutson, Swan advised that he and Smith could make contact in "outer space" on any frequency provided they informed her first of the frequency that they were to use so that she could advise the people in "outer space." Hutson stated that in connection with his contacting "outer space," he could make no commitment as he did not know how far the Navy would go. He advised, however, that Smith stated that he would try to make contact with "outer space" on Sunday, August 1, 1954, and was going to use a high frequency. Hutson stated that to make sure that contact was made, Mrs. Swan advised that the ship from "outer space" would come within 100 miles of Ottawa, Canada, so that Smith would have no difficulty in making his contact.
Hutson stated that Admiral Knowles wanted to know if physical contact could be had with the people in "outer space." Swan advised Hutson and Knowles that the people in "outer space" wanted to know if they could provide them protection and that if physical contact were to be made, they would appear in a force which would consist of 5,000 "bells" or "flying saucers." According to Mrs. Swan, these "bells" or "flying saucers" would appear over many nations of the world during the latter part of August, 1954, and would come close enough to the earth so that they could be seen by man and that they in turn would be able to see people on the street.
Hutson described Mrs. Frances Swan as being of middle-class circumstances, having a very modest home with furniture below middle-class. He stated that she has no more than a high school education, if she has that. He considered her to be a very simple-minded person, religious, a student of the Bible, and one who has studied spiritualism and other thought control systems.
The above data is being furnished to the Office of Special Investigations, United States Air Force, for any investigation deemed appropriate, and for information to G-2, Department of the Army, and the Office of Naval Intelligence, United States Navy. No further action is being taken in this matter by this Bureau.
Tolson <empty>
Boardman <empty>
Nichols <empty>
Belmont <empty>
Harbo <empty>
Mohr <empty>
Parsons <empty>
Rosen <empty>
Tamm <empty>
Sizoo <empty>
Winterrowd <empty>
Tele. Room <empty>
Holloman <empty>
Gandy <empty>

- 4 -
cc - 1 - Director of Naval Intelligence
Department of the Navy
The Pentagon
Washington 25, D. C.
cc - 1 - Assistant Chief of Staff, G-2
Department of the Army
The Pentagon
Washington 25, D. C.
Tolson: <empty>
Boardman: <empty>
Nichols: <empty>
Belmont: <empty>
Harbo: <empty>
Mohr: <empty>
Parsons: <empty>
Rosen: <empty>
Tamm: <empty>
Sizoo: <empty>
Winterrowd: <empty>
Tele. Room: <empty>
Holloman: <empty>
Gandy: <empty>

-5-
lw
August 12, 1954
RECORDED - 78
2-83894-347
AIR MAIL
Mr. Roger L. Jones
1414 Lake Drive
Zanesville, Ohio
Dear Mr. Jones:
Your letter of August 7, 1954, with enclosure, has been received.
I would like to advise you that the article you mentioned is entirely incorrect with reference to the FBI, and there is no information on the matter which I can give you.
Sincerely yours,
J. Edgar Hoover
NOTE: This article was previously brought to our attention, and the field advised the magazine editor that the story was not true as far as the Bureau's part was concerned. The editor stated he regretted the error and he would publish a retraction in the next issue, which is not due for several months yet. Enclosure was an airmail-stamped envelope, being used in reply.
Tolson: <empty>
Boardman: <empty>
Nichols: <empty>
Belmont: <empty>
Harbo: <empty>
Mohr: <empty>
Parsons: <empty>
Rosen: <empty>
Tamm: <empty>
Sizoo: <empty>
Winterrowd: <empty>
Tele. Room: <empty>
Holloman: <empty>
Gandy: <empty>
MLL: 1t
mpd
F413
0 AUG 24 1954'
COMM - FBI
AUG 13 1954
MAILED 31
AUG 15 8 28 PM '56
U.S. DEPT. OF JUSTICE
E B NN
RECEIVEL - M[illegible] ROOM
<signature>
RECEIVED READING ROOM
revooh tsgbЯ .U
For several years, the most serious error in the production of the weekly was not the story but the editor's conception of the story. The editor was not as interested in the story as he was in the editor's conception of the story. The editor was not as interested in the story as he was in the editor's conception of the story. The editor was not as interested in the story as he was in the editor's conception of the story. The editor was not as interested in the story as he was in the editor's conception of the story. The editor was not as interested in the story as he was in the editor's conception of the story. The editor was not as interested in the story as he was in the editor's conception of the story. The editor was not as interested in the story as he was in the editor's conception of the story. The editor was not as interested in the story as he was in the editor's conception of the story. The editor was not as interested in the story as he was in the editor's conception of the story. The editor was not as interested in the story as he was in the editor's conception of the story. The editor was not as interested in the story as he was in the editor's conception of the story. The editor was not as interested in the story as he was in the editor's conception of the story. The editor was not as interested in the story as he was in the editor's conception of the story. The editor was not as interested in the story as he was in the editor's conception of the story. The editor was not as interested in the story as he was in the editor's conception of the story. The editor was not as interested in the story as he was in the editor's conception of the story. The editor was not as interested in the story as he was in the editor's conception of the story. The editor was not as interested in the story as he was in the editor's conception of the story. The editor was not as interested in the story as he was in the editor's conception of the story. The editor was not as interested in the story as he was in the editor's conception of the story. The editor was not as interested in the story as he was in the editor's conception of the story. The editor was not as interested in the story as he was in the editor's conception of the story. The editor was not as interested in the story as he was in the editor's conception of the story. The editor
RECEIVED-MAIL ROOM
FBI
U.S. DEPT. OF JUSTICE
AUG 13 8:28 PM 54
凉王土气压
AUG 12 8:11 PM 56

RECEIVED
DIRECTOR
AUG 8 1984

OF JUSTICE
EBI

WAITED 31
AUG 16 1954
KUMHO ASIA
Mr. Tolson: <empty>
Mr. Boardman: <empty>
Mr. Nichols: <empty>
Mr. Belmont: <empty>
Mr. Harbo: <empty>
Mr. Mohr: <empty>
Mr. Parsons: <empty>
Mr. Rosen: <empty>
Mr. Tamm: <empty>
Mr. Sizoo: <empty>
Mr. Winterrowd: <empty>
Tele. Room: <empty>
Mr. Holloman: <empty>
Miss Gandy: <signature>
<empty>: <signature>
Roger L Jones
1414 Lake Drive
Zanesville, Ohio
August 7, 1954
(4)
To:
Director
Federal Bureau Of Investigation
Washington D.C.
Subject: Inquiry about fantastic article
The image contains a signature that appears to be a stylized 'J' or 'G'.
Dear Sir:
This may seem utterly silly, but I felt that I must write in about it.
In the August issue of MYSTIC magazine is an article telling of two men from the planet Venus who landed in a flying saucer near Barstow, California, obtained some old clothes, and hitch hiked into Los Angeles.
One of these two, the article says, got a job for a while in the missing persons office of a newspaper in LA.
On page 18, 2nd column, 3rd paragraph, MYSTIC says that a Los Ang-eles newspaper reporter stated that he sent a "full report" about these beings from another planet to the FBI.
MYSTIC also says that accompanying that account was an analysis record of a 'gouged' piece of hard alloy steel which one of the Venusians is supposed to have made by running his thumb lightly across the surface of it. And that this particular analysis was made by 'one of the foremost laboratories in LA.'
Frankly I don't believe the article. On the other hand, I can't prove it isn't true.
If such a report was sent to you, may I purchase a photostatic copy of each page?
EX
Sincerely yours,
Sincerely yours,
Roger Jones
Roger I. Jones
Ohio
RJ/
mme
ack. 8-12-54
Mme
RECORDED - 78
INDEXED .
62-83894-347 M4
13 AUG 18/1954
RECEIVED - DIRECTOR
FBI
U S DEPT. OF JUSTICE
AUG 12 8 11 PM '54
AUG 9 8:56 PM '54
RECEIVED - DIRECTOR
F B I
U. S. DEPARTMENT
AUG 10 9 21 AM '54
RECEIVED-NICHOLS
FBI
AUG 10 11:45 AM '54
Director
MR. JONES
AUG 10 1:42 PM 51
UI JUST E
CNOS NVPO

October 8, 1954
62-83894-348
Complainant
RECORDED - 94
Mr. L. P. Wagner
4353 Dickerson Avenue
Detroit 15, Michigan
REC
INEXED . 94
Dear Mr. Wagner:
EX-130
Your letter postmarked September 30, 1954, with enclosures, has been received, and the thought prompting your bringing the matter you mentioned to the attention of this Bureau is very much appreciated.
In the event you acquire further data which you believe to be of interest to the FBI, please feel free to contact the representatives of our office located at 913 Federal Building, Detroit 26, Michigan.
Sincerely yours,
John Edgar Hoover
Director
RECEIVED READING
432
RAUMGARONER
cc - Detroit, with copy of incoming and enclosures.
ATTENTION SAC: The Detroit Flying Saucer Club is not identifiable in Bufiles. Neither any of the individuals who are listed or speakers whose names appear on the forwarded by correspondent with the e Desmond Leslie and Henry Maday. These individuals have been brought to the attention before as having written ma lectured on the subject of Flying Sau
- Tolson: 
Boardman: 
Nichols: 
Belmont: 
Harbo: 
Mohr: 
Parsons: 
Rosen: 
Tamm: 
Sizoo: 
Winterrowd: 
Tele. Room: 
man:
DCL:n1
COMM - FBI
OCT 11 1954
MAILED 30
NON
de
Sept 27, 1954.
Federal Bureau
of Investigation
Washington, D.C.
Gentlemen:
A recently formed organization named the "Detroit Flying Sane Club" held a meeting as per enclosed literature. As the program unfolded and in face of loyalty statements by the principals I began to wonder.
Here is an organization dealing in the fantastic scambling god following. Fund raising is so profliend as their attendance for the night and 1,000 at one dollar each. They also passed out petition requesting release of secret information. They are international in scope and have national state local and even neighborhood study groups.
The whole set-up would be ideal as a communist front organization. It likely is 100% loyal but anything could happen and you are the people
Sincerely,
JOHN OTTO
J. F. /ragen
me
Ni
I'll mich
4353 Sherman Ave.
EXP.PROC.
ENCLO. ATTACHED
Dom + thomP
detent 15 mich.
mich
Ack 10-8-54
RECORDS - 9/1
62-83894-3.
10/13 1954
INEDXFD - 94
EX-130
MR. JONES
Oct 11 12 16 PM *51
RECEIVED
FSI
U S DEPT OF JUSTICE
Oct 4 11:52 AM '54
62-83894-348
ENCLOSURE

THE DETROIT FLYING SAUCER CLUB
presents
presents
MR. JOHN OTTO of Chicago

Patent Development Engineer, Member of Chicago Rocket Society, Pioneer Space Commentator
and Member of Saucers International -- who will speak on
The image is an illustration of a flying saucer, depicted in a stylized, hand-drawn manner. It is in motion, with lines indicating speed. The saucer has several circular indentations on its underside and appears to have a raised section on top. The context provided indicates that this image is associated with a speaker from "Saucers International" who will discuss "An Analysis of Latest Saucer Evidence."
"An Analysis of Latest Saucer Evidence"
(followed by audience participation from the floor)
WEDNESDAY EVENING, SEPTEMBER 22, 1954, at 7:30 P.M.
The Grand Ballroom, Veteran's Memorial Building, 151 West Jefferson
0040
ALSO Laura Marxer will introduce the leaders of eight neighborhood groups who already are looking up ... other sightings will be reported. Our petition to President Eisenhower is ready for your signature ... extra copies are on hand.
THIS IS A SCOOP! A group of "HAM" operators, started within our Club, have made what they are sure is a saucer contact. It will be reported by Don Thompson and his friends.
Our club is fast becoming Detroit's most interesting factual program. In presenting Mr. Otto, we are bringing a speaker who has just returned from an eastern lecture tour, where the S-R-0 sign was out in New York City, following his broadcast interview over Mutual Station WOR. His talk will be illustrated. If you have heard him, you know that as a lecturer John Otto ranks among the best. Bring your friends. Incidentally: Keep your eye out for our own Detroit Flying Saucer Club magazine arriving soon! Contribution $1.00 Henry Maday, Chairman.
Here is the man who has coupled 2½ years of profound research with native Cosmic insight!
The Detroit Flying Saucer Club announces the distinguished presence of
MR. DESMOND LESLIE
Noted Irish journalist and author; preeminent Saucer scholar; co-author of the best seller: "Flying Saucers Have Landed"
who will address our membership and friends
on TUESDAY EVENING September 28th, at 8:15 P.M.
with audience participation to follow.
Detroit Institute of Arts--Large auditorium (Entrance on John R, near Kirby)
All seats $1.00 ** Box Office open at 6:30 P.M.
62-83894-348

DETROIT FLYING SAUCER CLUB

6432 Cass Avenue - Detroit 2, Michigan - TRinity 5-7300
Henry Maday, President
Michigan
Dolores M. Coyne, Secretary
Laura Marxer, Vice President
John C. Hoffman, Treasurer
AN OPEN LETTER TO THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES:
Mr. President:
Sept. 22, 1954
As citizens of Detroit and vicinity, we request audience with you regarding the coming of Space ships to this earth. Many of us have seen these objects; so have others both in this country and on foreign soil.
To us it matters little whether these be called "UFO's" (unidentified flying objects) space ships, fireballs, flying saucers or any other name. The point is that they are continuously coming, and they are being observed both here and abroad.
It appears that our government with far greater facilities for observation than any individual is perfectly aware of such phenomena, but has adopted a policy of silence and secrecy in regard to them. We understand that certain individuals within the Defense Department are afraid of announcing the facts to the citizens for fear of panic.
Mr. President, we feel that this policy is false, fear-provoking and entirely mistaken for the following reasons:
1. We believe that these phenomena are of a magnitude and importance such as to warrant the utmost openness and cooperation between government and citizenry.
2. We believe that the present policy of silence and secrecy is a reflection on the intelligence and loyalty of the American citizen.
3. We believe that this policy not only encourages fear and lack of confidence in government, but leads to exploitation by unscrupulous publishers and opportunistic individuals who prey upon the natural curiosity of the American citizen.
4. We do not understand by what right certain public servants, utilizing the tax-payers' facilities for information and observation, gather facts relative to these phenomena, and then fail to properly inform the public.
5. Other countries have already acknowledged these phenomena and have publicly appointed governmental commissions to investigate, collect information and report to the people.
Mr. President: We, therefore, call upon you, our trusted leader, to utilize the great powers of your office to change this shameful and unamerican policy of silence and secrecy.
We ask that our government come forward and make an honest and forthright acknowledgment of these phenomena, and inform the citizens of such pertinent facts as are now available. In return, the citizens then would be willing to report sightings and contacts which otherwise would remain concealed because of fear of ridicule or rebuff by government agencies.
This cooperation between the government and its citizenry would clear the atmosphere of fear and suspicion, would renew confidence in our public officials, and pave the way to a better understanding and evaluation of these great phenomena.
Such a clear acknowledgment, emanating from the head of our nation might divert mankind's attention from the spectre of impending atomic war. It could lift the consciousness of everyone on this earth to a Cosmic level where a complete new set of Spiritual, scientific and social values would be within the reach of all.
DETROIT FLYING SAUCER CLUB
Name: <empty>
Address: <empty>
Name: <empty>
Address: <empty>
Name: <empty>
Address: <empty>
Name: <empty>
Address: <empty>
Name: <empty>
Address: <empty>
Name: <empty>
Address: <empty>

STANDARD FORM NO. 64

Office Memorandum • UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

TO : Director, FBI
DATE: 11/2/54
FROM : SAC, Cincinnati (100-new)
Flying Saucers
SUBJECT: CIVILIAN RESEARCH, 
INTERPLANETARY FLYING OBJECTS
LEONARD H. STRINGFIELD, Director,
7017 Britton Avenue
Cincinnati 27, Ohio
INFORMATION CONCERNING
(y)
Remylets to the Bureau dated 6/8/54 and 7/22/54 captioned, TRUMAN BETHURUM, FLYING DISCS, MISCELLANEOUS - INFORMATION CONCERNING (ESPIONAGE), Bufile 62-83894.
Attached for the Bureau's information is the 10/1/54 "Newsletter" of the Civilian Research, Interplanetary Flying Objects, designated Vol. I No. 7, which has the address P. O. Box 1855 (Cincinnati, Ohio), and which identifies LEONARD H. X STRINGFIELD, 7017 Britton Avenue, Cincinnati 27, Ohio, as the director of the organization. On the first page of this "Newsletter" STRINGFIELD reports that he had a private talk with Lt. Colonel JOHN O'MARA, Deputy Commander, Intelligence, U. S. Air Force, on 9/21/54 and that in essence Colonel O'MARA had told STRINGFIELD that flying saucers do exist and that past contradictions were unfortunate.
There is also enclosed a newspaper clipping from the Cincinnati Times Star dated 9/28/54, entitled, "Saucers" No Myth, Says Researcher. This article refers to the "Newsletter" enclosed and also reports on the interview of STRINGFIELD with Lt. Colonel JOHN O'MARA, Deputy Commander, Air Force Intelligence, Wright Field.
In addition, there is enclosed a second clipping, this being from the Cincinnati Post of October 11, 1954, entitled, See 'Em?---Saucers Cover City. This article reflects that several persons in Cincinnati had cited flying saucers and had reported them to LEONARD H. STRINGFIELD.
RCD:BL
Lib - Cincinnati
11/12/54
RECORDED
62-83894-349
5
Encls. (3)
Registered Mail
6 NOV 1954
EX.124

FOSPACH

COPIES DESTROYED
270 NOV 19 1964
Office Memorandum
D/LE: 1.1/2X3/4
{"box_2d": [759, 114, 888, 936], "text_content": "$+7402$"}
ONIDJUBH00 HOT TAMAOMMI
oldo Sitsnnonk
ebestA nevsA VIQ
rotogrth onteA CMAWOR 
ATATUO OMITA 120RATHI
СОВК КИГ НУГЕ 10
- 2009-2010 гг. вед. науч. сотр. каф. физики
- 2010-2011 гг. доцент каф. физики
- 2011-2012 гг. доцент каф. физики
- 2012-2013 гг. доцент каф. физики
- 2013-2014 гг. доцент каф. физики
- 2014-2015 гг. доцент каф. физики
- 2015-2016 гг. доцент каф. физики
- 2016-2017 гг. доцент каф. физики
- 2017-2018 гг. доцент каф. физики
- 2018-2019 гг. доцент каф. физики
- 2019-2020 гг. доцент каф. физики
- 2020-2021 гг. доцент каф. физики
- 2021-2022 гг. доцент каф. физики
- 2022-2023 гг. доцент каф. физики
- 2023-2024 гг. доцент каф. физики
- 2024-2025 гг. доцент каф. физики
awal
Gaerobe aft end dot

CANO
add to

Aru astotoys100 dag den ban jais of arou
The goal of this project is to develop a decolorization process for the removal of dyes from textile wastewater. The process will be based on the use of a novel adsorbent material, which will be synthesized and characterized in this project. The adsorbent will be tested for its ability to remove dyes from wastewater under various conditions, and the results will be used to optimize the process for maximum efficiency. The project will also investigate the potential for regeneration of the adsorbent, which will be important for its practical application. The project will be carried out in collaboration with industry partners, and the results will be disseminated through publications and presentations.
NOV 8 5:30 PM 54
FCID ESPIONAGE
DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE
NOV 8 4:39 PM 56

CI. 100-new
(CIVILIAN RESEARCH, INTERPLANETARY FLYING OBJECTS)
The "Newsletter" and the two newspaper clippings were forwarded to this office by JACK GUNDERMAN, 3914 Teleford Avenue, Cincinnati 20, Ohio, under date of 10/20/54. Mr. GUNDERMAN advised that he is employed as a layout artist by the DuBois Company, Inc., 1120 West Front Street, Cincinnati 3, Ohio, and that he began work there on 8/19/54. He advised that the advertising manager of this company is LEONARD H. STRINGFIELD who is intensely interested in flying saucers and has created the Civilian Research, Interplanetary Flying Objects organization. He advised that STRINGFIELD is director of this organization and is assisted by his wife, that he writes and publishes monthly the multi-lithographed "Newsletter," and that he claims that the publication now has a world-wide circulation of about 4,000 copies at a subscription price of $2.00 per year.
GUNDERMAN further advised that STRINGFIELD regularly communicates with FRANK EDWARDS, former A.F. of L. radio news commentator, on the subject of saucers and that, according to STRINGFIELD, EDWARDS is also intensely interested in saucers. EDWARDS recently warned STRINGFIELD to be very careful or the Air Force would stop STRINGFIELD's publishing activities. GUNDERMAN also related that STRINGFIELD maintains that the Air Force was responsible for EDWARDS being fired as the A.F. of L. radio news commentator because EDWARDS used his program to publicize his (EDWARDS) saucer interest.
GUNDERMAN related that STRINGFIELD states in the "Newsletter", and also personally, that the U. S. Air Force maintains a strict censorship of news pertaining to saucers, that the Air Force has several thousand saucer scientists working on a research project, and that any military personnel working on the project are subject to immediate court-martial if they reveal any facts about it.
STRINGFIELD has also stated to GUNDERMAN that he believes his home telephone is being monitored, presumably by the Air Force, and that he makes phone calls to Wright-Patterson Air Force Intelligence Officer JOHN O'MARA and to
CI. 100-new
(CIVILIAN RESEARCH, INTERPLANETARY FLYING OBJECTS)
FRANK EDWARDS from his office at the DuBois Company. GUNDERMAN continued that he believes STRINGFIELD is now afraid to proceed too much for fear the Air Force will in some way stop his operations and that EDWARDS' warning to STRINGFIELD was after the issuing of the October 1, 1954, "Newsletter" which contained the article about STRINGFIELD's interview with Colonel O'MARA. At the same time, GUNDERMAN reported that STRINGFIELD, in talking about the possibility that the Air Force might stop his operations, made a statement to the effect that, "The Air Force can't do anything to me. I'm claiming saucers are interplanetary."
GUNDERMAN continued in his letter that another point which may or may not be of interest is the fact that the DuBois Company copywriter, HERBERT E. CLARK, 4974 Strathmore Drive, Cincinnati, is a close friend of STRINGFIELD and is interested in STRINGFIELD's organization. He identified CLARK as about 25 years of age and a graduate of Ohio Wesleyan University where CLARK claims to have been a member of an inter-racial social college fraternity. GUNDERMAN said he noticed that CLARK often brings up such subjects as the falseness of religion, that atomic and hydrogen bombs may be the cause of bad weather, and that colored people shouldn't be discriminated against. At the same time CLARK is active in the Methodist Church and in the Cincinnati Civil Defense organization.
GUNDERMAN advised that he was furnishing the foregoing information because he thought that possibly the real purpose of the Civilian Research, Interplanetary Flying Objects organization might be to gather bits of information about a very secret U. S. Air Force Development Project.
My letter of 6/8/54 in referenced matter concerning TRUMAN BETHURUM on pages 4 and 5 contains information re-garding STRINGFIELD's interest in BETHURUM and that the indices of this office at that time contained no information
CI. 100-new
(CIVILIAN RESEARCH, INTERPLANETARY FLYING OBJECTS)
regarding STRINGFIELD. This letter also contains information concerning a contact by THOMAS EICKHOFF with Lt.
Colonel JOHN O'MARA, Wright-Patterson Air Force Base, on 6/6/54 relative to BETHURUM's story regarding flying saucers.
The foregoing is for the Bureau's information and this office is advising OSI, Wright-Patterson Air Force Base of the substance of the information in this letter and that no further action is being taken. It is noted that JACK GUNDERMAN requested in his letter that his identity be kept confidential.
The files of this office reflect that JACK SPAIN -GUNDERMAN voluntarily appeared at this office in December, 1951, and furnished a piece of literature which he had found at the University of Cincinnati. At that time he had no information as to subversive activities and no further contact was made with him.
The files of this office contain only one reference to HERBERT E. CLARK. This reflects that he is HERBERT E. CLARK, Jr., and that in August, 1954, as program chairman of the Pleasant Ridge Methodist Church Marri-eds class, he requested a speaker for 11/13/54. On 9/13/54 he was advised that SA MARK M. McSHURLEY would speak to the above mentioned class on the topic of General Activities of the FBI.
9-838-94-34
NOTHING
on carver
when repaired
1-27-28
ENCLOSURE
The image contains the text "C.R.I.F.O.".

NEWSLETTER

Leonard H. Stringfield
Director
7017 Britton Ave.
Cincinnati 27, Ohio
October 1, 1954
Vol. I No. 7
Civilian Research, Interplanetary Flying Objects
Reply to above address or P.O. Box 1855
Copyright 1954 by Len H. Stringfield
EXCLUSIVE: PRIVATE TALK WITH LT. COLONEL JOHN O'MARA, DEPUTY COMMANDER, INTELLIGENCE, CONFIRMS THE EXISTENCE OF "FLYING SAUCERS" -- TRUTH MAY BE BARED SOON AS "TECHNICAL DATA" REACHES THE AIR FORCE. AIR FORCE PLANS COOPERATION WITH PUBLIC.
The greatest story involving Earth and Space may soon be told. The "silence" group -- that official fear-faction of the Air force -- who for years fought to keep the truth from the public has now lost its anaconda-hold on accumulative evidence. Stimulated by recent events, the triumphant fearless-faction of the Air Force will take the benighted public into confidence. As Col. O'Mara inti-mated: we want to cooperate and dispense with the misconception that "flying saucers" do not exist. Here is the essence of Col. O'Mara's statements, 9/21/54:
Flying saucers "do exist" the Colonel told me, and he added, in effect, past contradictions were unfortunate. At this point I asked the Colonel if there were two breakdowns of saucers...the interplanetary device and the secret American missile. I was first corrected on the term "missile", then the Colonel said he believed there were "three breakdowns" -- the third, "natural phenomena." By such an admission, we therefore have these three breakdowns...1) the controlled "saucer" from outer space...2) a secret American saucer-like device and 3) unexplained natural phenomena.
When I tried for a committal statement on the interplanetary "saucer" I was, as expected, rebuffed, but was told that in their research they were "gradually getting more data." Then for corroboration, I asked if all the saucers seen by Americans were American devices and to this the Colonel replied: "Definitely not! Something does exist," he said, which, of course, is diametric to all A. F. statements following Major Keyhoe's book. In this respect, the Colonel intimated that the A. F. plans to cooperate with the public ... and a statement will be forthcoming from the Defense Dept. which will explain some of the past contradictions and release the details behind many of the sightings. When I asked, again, about the 700 sightings a week, he told me that this would be covered in the A. F. release.
Col. O'Mara and I discussed many sensitive issues. Although he spoke guardedly, the Colonel was wonderfully cooperative, and I could well appreciate his position in relation to official security. When, for instance, I asked about the Earth Satellites, and the theory indicating they were "rocks" ( see page 3) he replied that he has not received word they were "rocks." He said the scientist in White Sands "are still working very hard and have lots of things to work on." When I asked about the silent Mars Committee he explained that the astronomers have not issued a report because "they are in disagreement" as to what they found.
In my 26 minute talk with the Colonel we also discussed saucer hostility, mysterious plane crashes, the Atlantic problem, and, whether or not the CRIFO Newsletter was slanted in the right direction. Re: the latter, the Colonel said, in effect, that it ( the Newsletter) was in the right direction...
Editor's Note: Our Newsletter, due to above information, was revamped the last minute. What was the first page is now the second, et al.
62-83894-349

-2-

SAUCERS HARASS EARTH; FEAR OF WORLD PANIC FORCES INTERNATIONAL
CENSORSHIP: Behind the Mask of Comedy is tragedy -- the tragedy of censorship; on stage is the "Flying Saucer" whose misfortune of name has held it ludicrously before the public eye since Ken Arnold announced "nine saucer-like things" flying near Mt. Ranier in 1947.
"Saucers" in their true dimension are less ludicrous to world governments. Working in cooperative secrecy they have enforced a bowstring-tight conspiracy of censorship. A recent example is found in this writer's correspondence with the Chilean Naval Mission in Washington, D. C. To quote their reply of December 23, 1953:
"We are pleased to acknowledge receipt of your letter ... regarding the photographs showing UFO's in formational flight, which you mention were taken by Captain Orrego of the Chilean Navy near Antarctica in 1948.
"Regarding this matter we wish to inform you that recently we received a communication from Capt. Orrego stating that he had not seen any UFO's over the Antarctica in 1948, therefore, the photographs requested by you do not exist...."
(Signed) Harold Nagel, Captain
Chief of the Chilean Naval Mission.
Going back into old files I find that Capt. Augusto Orrego said:"During the bright antarctic night we saw flying saucers, one above the other, turning at tremendous speeds. We have photographs to prove what we saw."
And now, the proof of Chilean contradiction, thus international censorship. Here I refer to Major Keyhoe's recent book. He says: "Later, when I requested copies from the Chilean Embassy in Washington I was told that the pictures ( Captain Orrego's) were classified."
Editor: For the pictures to be classified they first had to exist. Why, during December, did they fail to exist? Does this tie in with the U.S. Air Force's sudden security ruling, which I learned by letter from ATIC, Wright-Patterson AFB, dated Dec. 17, 1953. They said, in part: "In reference to your letter, the ATIC has been directed to make all information on Project Blue Book available to the Dept. of Defense for release from that point only . . . ."
What happened in those yestermonth skies? Why do our Air Force and Central Intelligence bend over backwards to circumvent the truth about flying saucers? Why do foreign governments self-contradict themselves? Are they hiding super-saucer missiles of their own . . . or, are they all just being cooperative to conceal some great American weapon? Hardly!
The answer is in the skies today . . . right this minute! Fresh reports come to my desk daily. They come from competent and honest people. While these reports are being written other vehicles are crossing the barriers of space and time to "violate" earth's international boundaries . . . to harass the paths of air-lines, and with increasing frequency, to come closer to terra firma. Here, they hover over roof tops, "buzz" automobiles and peer into house windows. Some cause destruction, even death. Are these the behind-the-scenes reasons for censorship?

-3-

THE EARTH SATELLITE ENIGMA -- ARE THEY MOSCOW'S . . . METEORIC
OR MARTIAN? Statements conflict, as usual. I first reported these two mysterious earth satellites in my April Newsletter... then again, following Lt. Col. O'Mara's admission to me, June 8, that a govt. project was tracking the objects but that the evidence was conflicting.
I heard nothing more until Aug. 3 when Edward W. Hermann, special agent for McGraw-Hill Publications, told me Dave Anderton, Engineering Editor of Aviation Week, had received a report from Dr. Lincoln La Paz regarding the satellites, and, that it would "appear in detail in a coming issue." In that a correspondent friend, Ted Bloecher of New York, tells me he tried dozens of newstands for the magazine, but to no avail ( indicating a sudden scarcity) I will quote the August 23, 1954 issue of Aviation Week:
"Pentagon scare over the observance of two previously unobserved satellites orbiting the earth had dissipated with the identification of the objects as natural, not artificial satellites. Dr. Lincoln La Paz ... headed the identification project. One satellite is orbiting about 400 miles out while the other track is 600 miles from the earth. Pentagon thought the Russians had beaten the U.S. to space operations."
Now, the rest of the story, thanks to Ted Bloecher. Says Ted: "Being of a nature that is naturally suspicious of anything printed, I wrote Dr. La Paz and requested that he verify this release. I received an answer yesterday. (Sept. 8). In his letter, Dr. La Paz regrets 'that Aviation Week's misleading satellite story has received such widespread and uncritical publicity.' Enclosed also was the letter he (La Paz) had written to A.P. Strangely enough, the papers were content with carrying the false report, for I've seen no mention of Dr. La Paz's correction on this report."
Following is copy of letter, in part, by Dr. La Paz, to the Associated Press:
"Scientifically and militarily, the search for nearby satellites of the earth is one of the most important on which mankind has ever embarked. It is therefore unfortunate, although not surprising, that false rumors are bound to be circulated in regard to the nature and results of this search.
"As regards the Aviation Week story on the satellite search, summarized in the A. P. release shown me, it is false in every particular insofar as reference to me is concerned.... No one representing Aviation Week has questioned me concerning any possible connection I may have with the satellite search program, and no one whatever has been authorized to credit me with the activities attributed to me in the Aviation Week story."
(Signed) Lincoln La Paz
Director Institute of Meteoritics
--
Your letters and clippings are greatly appreciated; each is carefully read and filed. Since the April Newsletter, more than 8000 letters have crossed my desk -- a tremendous load for just two people. My wife, Dell, handles all administrative details, subscriptions, mailing, etc., while I direct the research and prepare the Newsletter. We are both grateful for your kind letters and your enduring patience. KEEP THE MAIL COMING, but we're afraid to commit ourselves on a reply. The Newsletter is published first Friday of the month. Subscription $2.00 a year, starting with June 1954 issue. Six month subscriptions starting in April terminate with Oct. issue. Mark RENEWAL clearly with remittance. Back copies of April, May, June issues available at 25¢ each. Foreign subscriptions (except Canada) are $2.60 regular first class mail. Air Mail add 50¢ extra per issue of Newsletter.

-4-

LOGAN, UTAH JOLTED BY VIOLENT EXPLOSION AND GAPING CRATER

FOLLOWING MYSTERIOUS "STREAK OF LIGHT" IN SKY: First guess -- a meteorite, but as the evidence was assembled by foremost authorities, the theory dissipated. Here's the story, thanks to the help of Mrs. John German of Woodscross, Utah who probed the Salt Lake Tribune files for the early facts -- before SILENCE!
On May 7, 1954 the Tribune reported: "A 'conventional meteorite fall' did not produce the crater found west of here Sunday, and probing operations at the scene have been discontinued, geologists said. In a 73-word statement, 3 scientists gave reasons why they ended their investigation, but it contained no opinion on who or what made the hole, or how it was made.
"The statement, signed by J. Stewart Williams, professor of geology, Utah State Agricultural College, Lincoln La Paz, director, Institute of Meteoritics, University of New Mexico and Clyde T. Hardy, USAC geology professor read:
'In the region extending from Clarkston south to Paradise, exhaustive interrogation of numerous persons who saw or heard the explosive phenomenon at midnight on May 1 has been carried out. The testimony thus obtained and material evidence recovered as a result of subsurface investigations at the site of the explosion west of Logan have disclosed that the crater was not produced by a conventional meteorite fall. For these reasons, operations have been discontinued! "
And from the Tribune, May 5: "Dr. Lincoln La Paz spent his first full day here, working with Dr. J.Stewart Williams and Dr. Clyde T.Hardy. On his arrival here Monday night, Dr. La Paz said the hole must have been made by a 'whopper' if it contains a meteorite. They decided to place a frame around the crater and cover it with wire mesh. Workers will stand on movable planks and probe with a pipe. In this way they will know they have probed every place possible under the mesh.
"My recommendation is that we excavate until we find what made the hole," said Dr. La Paz, who is credited with recovering the world's largest aerolite, weighing more than one ton.'
The incident occurred on May 1 bringing "500 phone calls" to the Logan City Police Dept. Residents reported their houses "shaken" and TV viewers said their reception was disturbed. A check made later with Hill Air Force Base and Salt Lake City indicated no planes in the area for several hours. A war veteran described the 16 ft. wide and 6 ft. deep hole as looking like a "bomb crater." Sod was found scattered in all directions for more than 100 yards.
On Aug. 31, '54, I wrote Dr. Clyde T. Hardy, geologist who worked on the project, asking if any substantial evidence as to its (the explosion's) source had been uncovered. Following is Dr. Hardy's reply of Sept. 11, 1954:
"Reference is made to your letter of Aug. 31 re. the explosion and crater west of Logan. Although a fireball was reported by several people previous to the ground explosion, I am personally convinced that they were confused. One especially competent observer describes a ground flash only and he was favorably situated to see all aspects of the occurrence."
(Signed) Clyde T. Hardy
Assoc. Prof., Dept. Geology

(Ref. File: Case 20)
-5-
JET "EXPLODES" CHASING UFO NEAR UTICA, N. Y.: The gamy but saucer-phobic press tried pitting wits with its readership. They handed the unsuspecting reader a front page story without the facts, then ( see July 3 New York Times) presented the facts in a separate story buried in the back pages. Reason: They feared public reaction to saucer tragedy, viz: Capt. Mantell. But, wits didn't pit right with Ted Bloecher and others such as Lester S. Parker of Topeka, Kansas. They correlated the loose ends:
Let's review one "end" -- the front page story: A jet fighter returning from a "scramble" to investigate an "unidentified aircraft", plunged into tiny Walesville eleven miles southwest of Utica, about 12:30 P.M., July 2, 1954. The plane crashed into an auto and two buildings killing four persons.
The Air Force in Washington announced the F-94-C Starfire had been sent up on "an active air defense intercept mission." According to the U. P. release of July 3, "Air Force spokesmen said the cockpit of the plane ... became unbearably hot during the flight and that the pilot ordered his radar observer to bail out ... then bailed out himself at 7000 ft."
According to the A. P. release in New York Times July 3, "The air base (Griffis AFB) said, ' that fuel in the burning plane apparently had exploded when the jet crashed.' They said it had not been determined whether an explosion occurred while the jet was in the air."
"Later," according to A. P., "an AF spokesman in Washington said the intercepted plane was one that had failed to file a flight plan with C. A. A. or, one that drifted off its announced flight path."
The U. P. and A. P. stories of disaster were essentially true, but because of the "disaster" angle they designated the pursued object as a "plane" rather than a UFO. Ted Bloecher, who did some checking, told me that his friend, Ed Wilkinson, listened to a broadcast which described the incident, thus: "The jet had successfully contacted the UFO but still could not identify it."
But Ted Bloecher's real find was in the small item buried in the New York Times' (July 3) back pages. It reads:
"A silvery, balloon-like object floating high over the Utica area sent residents rushing to their telephones to make inquiries of newspapers, police and radio stations.
"The Utica Press estimated that more than 1000 calls about the object jammed its switchboard between 6 and 10:00 P.M. It was reported sighted by residents in a twenty-five mile radius extending from Rome on the west to Frankfort, east of Utica.
"Col. Milton F. Summerfelt commandant of the Air Force Depot at Rome said the object appeared to be a plastic balloon about 40 ft. long and partially deflated. He theorized that it was making a gradual descent and said that if it still were in the area tomorrow morning a plane would be sent to investigate.
"A Mohawk Airlines pilot estimated the altitude of the object at about 20,000 ft. He said he saw a light apparently shining from it."

( Ref. Case File - 21)
-6-

A WORD FROM "SILENCED" BUT NOT FORGOTTEN FRANK EDWARDS:
Many hundreds of letters have been received asking for "inside" details behind Frank Edwards' dismissal from radio. Many have voiced their anger and, many like Shirley Watson of Vienna, Va., have vociferated their feelings to Mr. Meany, AFL President. CRIFO owes a lot to Frank Edwards, so I wrote Frank recently and asked him for a statement. Here is Frank's reply of August 26, 1954 in part:
"The facts are that for a long time I had been fighting the encroachment of censorship imposed by Meany. The final straw came when on Aug. 2nd this year he sent me a memorandum imposing conditions which my attorneys regard as a violation of my contract ... and conditions under which I could no longer continue to produce the same type of broadcast which had built my program to one of the top three ... according to AFL statements.
"Meany's Aug. 2 memo notified me that the AFL censor would tell me what items MUST be carried. Still disguised as an 'editor' the censor would inspect the scripts and stand by to see that I carried the material as directed.
"Am glad that I was able to be of assistance to you in the dissemination of the material in which we both, along with millions of others, are so deeply interested."
Best wishes,(Signed) Frank Edwards
Readers will be interested to know that Frank Edwards has written an article entitled "SPIES IN THE SKIES?" which is to appear in the Nov. issue of Real magazine. Says Frank: "It deals with some of the little known aspects of the greatest news story of our times." DON'T MISS IT!
MYSTERY METAL IGNITES ROAD: Woodside, California officials and residents were baffled by a shower of white-hot metal pellets, Aug. 27, 1954. The furore was triggered when a woman motorist saw a "circle of fire" along Pertola Road. Later firemen found scores of small pieces of flaming metal burning the pavement over an area about 70 by 250 feet. The blacktop bubbled where the metal burned into it and grass fires were started where the metal burned along the shoulders of the highway. A resident, Ignacio Miramontes, reported hearing a loud explosion about 4:15 P.M., but saw nothing.
According to U. P. release,"Metallurgists and AF officials offered no solution for the white-hot pellets. "San Mateo officials reported the pellets ranging in size from a dime to a 50 cent piece, and according to Woodside Fire Chief, John Volpiano, the metal shower burned holes in the road surface a quarter of an inch deep. "I just can't figure it out," he said. "It has me completely mystified." Deputy Sheriff Robert Benassini said the metal scraps had irregular marking and appeared to have come from a "cylindrical object."
An Air Force spokesman advanced the theory, the metal came from jet plane exhaust pipes which reach extreme temperatures in flight. However, a check with air bases disclosed no military jets were in the bay area Friday. (Thanks to Perry G. Powers of Duarte and an unnamed informant who sent in the story from San Fransisco Call Bulletin.)
THE "SPLITCHED PAINT MYSTERY": On the same date in Little Hollywood, in a community in the valley by the bay just north of San Fransisco County line, residents were baffled by.a "splotched paint mystery". About half of the approximate 300 homes in the area were affected. One white stucco house turned pink, a gray house splotched, a green house came out looking like a "marble cake." None of the residents had an explanation.

-7-

THE CINCINNATI PAINT INCIDENT -- A PARALLEL PHENOMENON?
Residents in Cincinnati, Sept. 11, '54 had similar experiences. One Albert Allgeyer came home from work to find the bright yellow trim on his two-story house stained to a "washed-out brown, almost black color." The stains wouldn't rub off, without taking the hard top coat of paint,too. It looked like someone had used a blow-torch, and in some places the stains appeared in dirty brown rivulets. Allgeyer was certain that the stains weren't there the night before. So was Howard May, neighbor, who received similar treatment. His house is trimmed in yellow too, as is another house across the street where stains appeared.
On Sept. 22, I talked with Allgeyer again and learned that the Kettering Lab at University of Cincinnati had taken air samples as well as specimens of the affected paint. A Dr. Hughes explained that the mystery was caused by the chemical reaction of hydrogen sulphide which could attack the lead in certain paints. The Lab averred that the chemical probably emanated from the Millcreek Valley which runs near Allgeyer's home, and which has since affected other homes in the area. Although a Proctor and Gamble doctor who examined Allgeyer told him that the chemical mentioned is not injurious to people, Allgeyer, five days after the incident complained of extreme swelling of both hands and eye lids. Described as some kind of allergy -- not hives, they offered no explanation.
Editor's Note: Remembering other ubiquitous mysteries, viz., pitted wind-shields, metallic pellets, curious ash deposits, I referred to a recent article written by Edward S. Schultz, of Buffalo, N. Y. entitled, "The Growing Windshield Damage Phenomenon," which appeared in B.S.R.A.'s May-June, 1954 issue of Round Robin. In this, Schultz offers plausible and provocative theory ... and the possible answer to these phenomena. Write Meade Layne, Director, 3524 Adams Ave., San Diego 16, California.
CASE FILE REVIEW: Space does not permit the use of all the excellent material received. Sightings in the U.S., Europe and Australia are continuing and will be used in forthcoming issues of the Newsletter.
C-22, Rockford, Ill... 9/5/54) As they had done on many occasions, amateur astronomers, Peter Bartkus and Theodore McColm, were watching the moon through a telescope. Between the hours of 10:35 and 11:15 P.M., Bartkus writes: "I observed the most unusual phenomena I have ever had the experience of witnessing." Bartkus continues: "The moon was observed through my 6" cassinian reflector telescope using a secondary mirror. The total focal length for this setup is over 100", and with the use of 150 and 200 power oculars we got tremendous power with the least loss of light. The moon was in the first quarter and its diameter was 29 feet, 30 inches. We saw a spherical object ascending from the northern section off Mare Humboldtianum area. It was not glowing or brilliant, but seemed more like a dull reflected light of a planet. Its size we estimated at about the diameter of craters Pitiscus or Vlaco. At the time it disappeared at 11:15, it had travelled more than the 29' 30" of arc in about 40 minutes. We checked out the possibility of atmospheric diffraction in the sky or the scope by traversing the scope, and by changing the oculars. The object must have been a powered body because as the moon was descending at 1081 mph, the object was ascending and not following a true orbit. It was definitely in space, and in the same field as the moon, or near the moon."

-8-
The drawings below are Theodore McColm's. They illustrate the object's size and movement at 4 minute intervals in relation to the moon. McColm, through calculus, estimated the object to be 12,500 ft. in diameter.
Theodore McColm's drawings illustrate an object's size and movement in relation to the moon at 4-minute intervals. McColm estimated the object's diameter to be 12,500 ft. A distance of 1081 miles is indicated between frames 2 and 3. The drawings depict five sequential frames labeled 1 through 5, with "S" likely representing South and "N" representing North.
Editor's Note: This incident and Case 14 transcends any notion that "saucer" vehicles are confined to earth's atmosphere, therefore U.S. or Russian origin. Unless these governments are secretly conducting interplanetary travel, Cases 14 and 22 and myriads of others, add another positive link to the hypothesis that "saucers" are extra-terrestrial and are using the moon as a hopping-off point.
C-23, Rome, Italy ... 9/18/54) A.P. Wire: Startled Romans who saw a strange cigar-shaped object streaking over the capital flooded newspaper offices with calls. Radar operators also reported picking up the missile on instruments. Technicians at Ciampino Airfield described the "half-cigar" as plummeting toward earth for more than 1000 ft., then rising at tremendous speed before vanishing. ( Thanks to George Popowitch, Barberton, Ohio. )
An INS release by eyewitness Michael Chinigo states: "What attracted my attention was the strange sound as it passed overhead. It was like thunder with a staccato effect... a series of explosions that grew louder as the object got closer. This was followed by a dead silence as the thing stopped, or appeared to, at a height of about 6000 ft. Suddenly it shot upward and left an exhaust trail of milky white smoke. It went straight up into the sky. The Defense Dept. described it as a 'clipped cone' with a smaller surface on the bottom, or as two semi-circular disks, one bigger than the other, with a bigger one on top. To me it seemed like an inverted sawed-off cone. What was strange was the object's ability to 'park' in mid-air for several minutes. The radar station at Rome which picked up the 'cigar' or 'cone' said it registered for 3½ minutes." (Thanks to Warren Morse, Palo Alto, Calif.)
Editor's Note: Significant here is the AP and INS release. First they break us the news on the Labrador sighting in July, then silence, then the Norwegian space man story in August, now Italy. Foreign sightings all -- a subtle preparation.
Subject: CIVILIAN RESEARCH, INTERPLANETARY FLYING OBJECTS, LEONARD H. STRINGFIELD, Director, Cincinnati, Ohio INFORMATION CONCERNING
Enclosures to Bureau:
1. "Newsletter" of 10/1/54 of the Civilian Research, Interplanetary Flying Objects.
2. Newspaper clipping from Cincinnati Times Star, 9/28/54 entitled, "Saucers" No Myth, Says Researcher.
3. Newspaper clipping from Cincinnati Post, 10/11/54, entitled See 'Em?--Saucers Cover City.
CI. 100-new
RM

"Saucers" No
Myth, Says
Researcher

Flying saucers are not a myth.
At least, this is the studied conviction of Leonard H. Stringfield, director of civilian research, Interplanetary Flying Objects, 7017 Britton Avenue, a former Air Force intelligence officer.
In a newsletter to be issued Friday by the research bureau, Stringfield reported results of a 26-minute interview on flying saucers with Lt. Col. John O'Mara, deputy commander, Air Force intelligence, Wright Field.
He wrote that Col. O'Mara "intimated" that the Air Force wants to "dispense with the mis-conception that 'flying saucers' do not exist."
STRINGFIELD REPORTED:
"Flying saucers do exist," the
colonel told me, and he added
. . . (that) past contradictions
were unfortunate.
I asked the colonel if there were two breakdowns of saucers ... the interplanetary device and the secret American missile. I was first corrected on the term 'missile,' then the colonel said he believed there were 'three breakdowns'-the third, 'natural phenomena.'
By such an admission," Stringfield wrote, "we therefore have these three breakdowns:
"1. The controlled 'saucer from outer space.
2. A secret American saucer-like device.
"3. Unexplained natural phe-
nomena."
Stringfield continued that when he asked the officer for a definite statement on saucers from outer space he was rebuffed, but was told that Air Force research was "gradually getting more data."
WHEN ASKED if all saucers seen by Americans—700 a week —were U. S. aircraft, Lt. Col. O'Mara replied, "Definitely not! Something does exist."
The Air Force officer further "intimated," according to Stringfield, that an official statement will soon be issued by the Defense Department "which will explain some of the past contradictions and release the details behind many (flying saucer) sightings."
"I can pretty well declare from evidence in my files," Stringfield told the TIMES-STAR, "that some flying saucers definitely come from outer space."
ma
II
Sent 2
CINCINNATI TIMES STAR, CINCINNATI,O.
Date: 9-28-54
Edition: Final
Section: News
Page: 25
62-83 894-349
329

See 'Em?---Saucers Cover City
Several Disc Objects Reported Over Cincinnati;
Little Men Leave Craft in Germany, Says Here

Mysterious aircraft . . . "orange-red col-
ored, silent, disc-shaped and 60 feet in diame-
ter," were reported hovering 300 feet over Cin-
cinnati Monday.
This was the fifth report within a week of similar objects seen around the city, always traveling in sets of three.
A similar wave of flying saucer reports has cropped up in five other parts of the world, including Germany, Belgium, Egypt, Argetina, Lebanon and the French Cameroons.
LATEST DISCS cited here were Monday at 5 a. m. by WLW announcer Keith Wildeson. He reported the incident to Leonard H. Stringfield, 7017 Britton Avenue, Madison Place, director of civilian research, interplanetary flying objects. He said the current reports "seem to indicate a pattern" in the flight of the saucers.
Sundstrom, 7010 Britton Avenue, spotted a formation of three discs Sunday at 5 p. m.
STRINGFIELD SAID Cincinnati is sup-
posed to be a megnetic fault line and that per-
haps the saucers come here to recharge.
In Muenster, Germany, 42-year-old movie projectionist Franz Hoge told the news agency DPA that he saw a "flying saucer" land in a field and peculiarly shaped creatures get out. Hoge said he noticed a bright blue light
and thought at first it came from a crashed airplane. On closer examination, he declared, he discovered a "cigar-shaped" craft hovering about six feet above the ground and giving off a brilliant blue radiance which nearly blinded him.
Then, the movie projectionist added, "he suddenly sighted four creatures about three and one-half feet in height. He said they had "thick-set bodies, oversized heads and delicate
e rubber-like clothing.
Lit 11 154 Lin Poat
THE CINCINNATI POST
Date: 10-11-54
Edition: Final
Section: News
Page: <empty>
SAC, Cincinnati (100-New)
November 12, 1954
Director, FBI (62-83894)
62-83894-349
RECORDED
CIVILIAN RESEARCH,
INTERPLANETARY FLYING OBJECTS
LEONARD H. STRINGFIELD, Director,
7017 Britton Avenue
Cincinnati 27, Ohio
MISCELLANEOUS - INFORMATION CONCERNING
EX-124
Reurlet 11/2/54.
You are instructed to forward to the Bureau by November 26, 1954, a memorandum suitable for dis-
semination containing the pertinent information in your referenced letter in order that it can be dis-
seminated by the Bureau to OSI headquarters and to the Department. Copies of the enclosures forwarded
to the Bureau with your referenced let will be furnished to OSI and to the Department by the Bureau
as enclosures to the memorandum being prepared by you.
Tolson: 
Boardman: 
Nichols: 
Belmont: 
Harbo: 
Mohr: 
Parsons: 
Rosen: 
Tamm: 
Sizoo: 
Winterrowd: 
Tele. Room: 
Holloman: 
Gandy:
EHM: baw
(4)
now baw
1986
COMM - FBI
NOV 12 1954
MAILED 24
MCM IS 223 PM 24
DEPT OF TOBACCO
EBI
NOV 2018
NOV 17 1954
KELVIN
about
NOV 12 5:3 PM 54
FBI
S DEPT. OF JUSTICE
FIREMALL ROOM
187 - 1984
THERM
NOV 151954
Holli
Tic
Jewelry
Brand
Rosen
Garden
Hill
Harris
Tobacco

STANDARD FORM NO. 64

Office Memorandum UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

TO: Director, FBI (62-83894)
DATE: 11/22/54
FROM: Ms. SAC, Cincinnati (100-11671)
0 Flying Saucers
SUBJECT: CIVILIAN RESEARCH, INTERPLANETARY FLYING OBJECTS
LEONARD H. STRINGFIELD, Director
7017 Britton Avenue
Cincinnati 27, Ohio
MISCELLANEOUS - INFORMATION CONC
Rebulet dated 11/12/54.
Attached is a memorandum containing the pertinent information contained in mylet of 11/2/54.
RCD:SAS
ENCLOSURE
REGISTERED MAIL
2- photostate of enclosure (newletter and newspaper articles) made 12/2/54
INSIDE
RECORDED - 24
62-83894-350
IND
INDEXED - 24
NDV 24 1954
2292
INVESTMENT DIV. page 2

58 DEC 7-1954
Office Memorandum - UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT
DATE: 11/25/21
(19828-98) IN RE: Kenneth J. or
(17011-901) Standard 2008
P.O. Box 100, Strum, WI 54170
501 Ashford Avenue
Cincinnati, OH 45212
.47\SI\II beta br delode
ent geinbetsco mührenomen s el horizonte
. R/S/111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111
HOD: CSE
PROG2018
TIAN DENGTAI 2021
U.S. DEPT. OF JUSTICE
HAIKSON SECTION
DEC 2 4:47 PM 5:1
RECEIVED
NOV 29 4:52 PM 54
FBI
INTERNAL SECURITY SECT.
II DEPT OF JUSTICE
FBI
30 JUIN 2019 ESPIONAGE
Fed 11/30/54

CIVILIAN RESEARCH,
INTERPLANETARY FLYING OBJECTS
LEONARD H. STRINGFIELD,
Director,
7017 Britton Avenue
Cincinnati 27, Ohio
A source of unknown reliability, an acquaintance of LEONARD H. STRINGFIELD who is the Director of the captioned organization Civilian Research, Interplanetary Flying Objects, in October, 1954 advised that STRINGFIELD created this organization due to his intense interest in flying saucers. This source advised that STRINGFIELD is the Director of the organization and is assisted by his wife, and that STRINGFIELD writes and publishes monthly the multi-lithographed "Newsletter" of the organization. He uses the "Newsletter" to report news pertaining to the sightings of flying saucers and he claims the "Newsletter" now has a world-wide circulation of about 4,000 copies. The "Newsletter" sells at the subscription price of $2.00 per year.
The same source furnished a copy of the "News-letter" dated October 1, 1954, which issue is designated Volume 1, Number 7, and carries the address Post Office Box 1855 (Cincinnati, Ohio). This issue identifies LEONARD H. STRINGFIELD, address as captioned above, as the Director of the organization and reports that he had a private talk with Lieutenant Colonel JOHN O'MARA, Deputy Commander, Intelligence, United States Air Force, on September 21, 1954, and that in essence Colonel O'MARA told STRINGFIELD that flying saucers do exist and that past contradictions were unfortunate.
It is noted that the final edition of the Cincinnati "Times Star", a newspaper of general circulation in Cincinnati, Ohio, in its issue of September 28, 1954 on Page 25, carried an article entitled "Saucers, No Myth, Says Researcher". This article refers to the
AGENCY: 10c + 1Pc each excl to OSI (0-147);
REQ. REC'D: 10c + 1Pc each excl to 2A.
DATE FORW.: 12/12/54
HOW FORW.: Internal Security - 1 -
BRIDGET VALE
62-83894-350
October 1, 1954 issue of the "Newsletter", supra, and also reports on STRINGFIELD's interview with Lieutenant Colonel JOHN O'MARA, Deputy Commander, Air Force Intelligence, Wright Field (Wright-Patterson Air Force Base, Ohio).
The same source also reported that STRINGFIELD regularly communicates with FRANK EDWARDS, former A. F. of L. radio news commentator, on the subject of saucers and that, according to STRINGFIELD, EDWARDS is also intensely interested in saucers. EDWARDS recently warned STRINGFIELD to be very careful or the Air Force would stop STRINGFIELD's publishing activities. This source further reported that STRINGFIELD maintains that the U. S. Air Force was responsible for EDWARDS being fired by the A. F. of L. as its radio news commentator because EDWARDS used his program to publicize his (EDWARDS') saucer interest.
This source further advised that STRINGFIELD has stated in his "Newsletter" and also personally that the U. S. Air Force maintains a strict censorship of news pertaining to saucers, that the Air Force has several thousand saucer scientists working on a research project and that any military personnel working on the project are subject to immediate court-martial if they reveal any facts about it.
It was also related by this source that STRINGFIELD has stated that he believes his home telephone is being monitored, presumably by the Air Force, and that he therefore, makes his phone calls to Lieutenant Colonel O'MARA at Wright-Patterson Air Force Base and to FRANK EDWARDS from his office at the DuBois Company, Inc., 1120 West Front Street, Cincinnati 3, Ohio, where he is employed as the Advertising Manager. This source was of the opinion that STRINGFIELD is now afraid to proceed too much for fear the U. S. Air Force will in some way stop his operations and that EDWARDS' warning to STRINGFIELD came after STRINGFIELD had issued the October 1, 1954 "Newsletter" concerning his talk with Colonel O'MARA. At the same time, this source continued, STRINGFIELD in talking about the possibility that the U. S. Air Force might stop his operations, made a statement to the effect, "The Air Force can't do anything to me. I'm claiming saucers are interplanetary."
12/7/54
INVESTIGATIVE
D McWhorter
merely belief-
Juye non aerial
yone to all
signed
This informant advised that although he had no facts to suggest this possibility, the possibility had occurred to him that the real purpose of the above organization might be to gather bits of information about a very secret U. S. Air Force Development Project.
November 26, 1954
RECORDED-45
INDEXED-45
62-83894-
Mrs. Helen L. Sullivan
Firkole Bridge
Glengariff, County Cork
Ireland
Dear Mrs. Sullivan:
Your letter dated October 27, 1954, with enclosures, has just been received.
The thought prompting your writing me is very much appreciated, and I was interested in looking over the cuttings you forwarded.
Since your communication may be of concern to another governmental agency, I am taking the liberty of forwarding a copy of it and copies of the two articles you noted to the Director, Office of Special Investigations, The Inspector General, Department of the Air Force, The Pentagon, Washington 25, D. C.
I want to take this occasion to thank you for your kind expression of good wishes. I hope my efforts will continue to merit your esteem.
Sincerely yours,
John Edgar Hoover
Director
Tolson: 
Boardman: 
Nichols: 
Belmont: 
Harbo: 
Mohr: 
Parsons: 
Rosen: 
Tamm: 
Sizoo: 
Winterrowd: 
Tele. Room: 581
Holloman: 
Gandy:
cc - Legal Attache, London, England, with copy of incoming.
cc - Foreign Liaison Desk and copies of enclosures
Copies of incoming and enclosures sent by form to the Office of Special Investigations, Department of the Air Force.
Voorzitter
COMM - FBI
NOV 29 1954
MAILED 24
DCL: es
GOLDEN GATE
2281 1/4 x 11-1/2
Ireland
Office of Special Investigations, Department of Justice
Copies of incoming and outgoing mail sent by form to the
Director, Federal Bureau of Investigation
Washington, D.C.
FMI
W004
Gandy
Holloman
Telf. Room
Winticrowd
81200
Twin
Rosen
Persons
Moff
Hirpo
Belmont
Nichols
Bodgman
Tobian
.ΣΩΤΟΣ ΤΙΑ
COMM - FBI
NOVS 9 1954
MAILED 24
DEC: 08
NOV 30 1954
ROME DAILY AMERICAN
Tuesday, September 28, 1954

Windshield 'Cancer' Epidemic
Moving To Northern Italy

Mysterious windshield explosions in Italy have followed a "hurricane path" of shattering glass across the press and yesterday appeared heading north. A United Press story that its first started in north Piedmont last week + sin" [unexplainable car-windshield
unexplainable car-accident explosion have moved to Rome and then started north again. with the last case being noted one week ago at Modena, on the southern edge of the Po River valley.
In its wake the mystery has left sources of stunned motorists, many cut by glass, describing the phenomenon to puzzled authorities.
They were driving along, sober folk with nothing unusual visible before them, when suddenly—crash! The "exploded" windshield splinters into a thousand pieces, crashing into their laps and often cutting the hands and face. More than once a serious crackup has been
narrowly averted.
What causes it? No one seems
to know. Italians call it "cancer
of the windshield." In its course
across Italy, the "disease," which
first appeared to strike American
motorists in northwest U.S., has
spread from automobiles to include
streetcars and houses.
It has occurred by day and night and seems unrelated to weather, speed or age of vehicle.
Following its June appearance in the Italian Piedmont, where it struck four cars in an area of a hundred miles, the epidemic moved east and south, hit Rome a week later. The phenomenon then moved north, blasting the front glass of a big red tourist bus in Genoa. Latest case, still further north, was the literal explosion of the windshield glass of Dr. Martino Farinetti at Modena. Dr. Farinetti, en route to a clinic, was cut in the face and momentarily lost control of the car. Attempting to brake to a stop, he spun around and nearly went over in a ditch.
ENCLOSURE
62-83894-357
Sunday, October 17, 1954
[ ]
ROME DAILY AMERICAN

Po Villagers See 'Saucer' Landing

ROVIGO, Italy, Oct. 16 (UP)—A shallow 20-foot crater and a scorched grove of popular trees in the marshlands of the Po river convinced the villagers of nearby Po Di Gnocca today that they really had seen a flying saucer.
Police said several score of the villagers watched the "saucer" go through its paces. They said the silver disc approached at great speed and then landed gently in the marshes a few miles away. After a short pause it rose perpendicularly into the air and sped away towards the east, they said.
Excited villages who rushed to the spot where the disc appeared to land found the 20-foot crater and the scorched popular trees.
The "landing" was the most sensational of a new wave of flying saucer reports which is mystifying Italy. Reports of "discs" and "cigars" came from all over the peninsula despite Air Ministry assurances that no such objects have been registered on the ministry's radar network.
ENCLOSURE
62-83894-357
J. L. Sullivan
Fishvale Bridge
Hengarriff Co Cork
GLENHINDS
54
SHE
R
Glengarriff
No. 97
Hon. J Edgar Hoover
Federal Bureau of Investigation
Washington D.C.
U.S.A.
The image appears to be a close-up of a stamp or a seal, possibly with an embossed or engraved design. It is abstract and lacks clear identifiable objects or text, making it difficult to extract specific data or key information. The pattern suggests a circular or arched form with textured fill.
Stamp with "IN GARBH CO HORCAIGHE" and "28 * 54 *".
WASHINGTON D.C.
NOV 18
1954
REG. DIV.
CHORCAIGHE CO.
WACAREBH
34
*
X
34
Fisheale Bridge
Glenagarriff Co Cork
October 27, 1954
Hon. J. Edgar Hoover
Washington D. C.
Dear Sir: - Flying Janitors
I am enclosing two articles for your attention. By a strange coincidence I read these two papers at the same time and then I suddenly remembered that when I was back "home" that the papers carried many stories of "Flying Saucers" being seen in Oregon and Washington. It suddenly entered my mind that maybe there is a connection between
RECORDED-45
62-083894-351
27 DEC 1954
Flying Saucers" (3) and shattered "kindshies"
The do use water to wash all kinds of glass. I just couldn't ignore the thought so I'm passing it along for what its worth.
With every kind wish to you,
Mr Hoover, for your wonderful work.
Respectfully yours,
(Mrs) Helen L. Sullivan
2 Cne.
Rome Daily American
9-28-54
10-17-54
MR. JONES
Nov 19 9 29 AM '54
RECEIVED
FBI
DEPT OF JUSTICE

STANDARD FORM NO. 64
Office Memorandum
TO : Director, FBI
DATE: November 30, 1954
FROM: AN SAC, Detroit (65-2677)
Flying Saucers
ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED
DATE: 3-27-80 BY: 50-5 / 56 / IUC
5-7-85 SP.6 bya/tey 245974
from the Director, dated

SUBJECT: DETROIT FLYING SAUCER CLUB ESPIONAGE - X

Reference is made to a letter from the Director, dated October 8, 1954, to Mr. L. P. WAGNER, 4353 Dickerson, Detroit 15, Michigan, regarding the Detroit Flying Saucer Club.
The purpose of this letter is to set out for the information of the Bureau, the activities of Detroit Flying Saucer Club, as they are known. This is done chronologically.
On May 18, 1954, Mrs. JEAN PEARSON, Aviation Writer, Detroit Free Press, advised that she had been attending meetings concerning flying saucers, rockets to the moon, etc., which, she felt could be subversive. On May 27, 1954, Mrs. PEARSON and BUD GOODMAN, Detroit Free Press Editorial Writer, advised that one GEORGE ADAMSKI, had talked in Detroit on flying saucers. They were alarmed at the nature of the remarks; such as "We are Americans, but"......and that we should reduce our arms and would blow ourselves up with the H-Bomb, because visitors from outer space were afraid we had started something that would get out of hand. Another lecturer in Detroit, was TRUMAN BETHURUM. The sponsors of these speakers were HELEN EEEVE, LAURA MARXER, HENRY MADAY, and RONALD COOK. According to pamphlets furnished by GOODMAN, a "Flying Saucer Review Group" was to be formed. This was headed by HENRY MADAY, 364 W. Lewiston, Ferndale, Michigan, who uses the pen name, JARED LYON. He is editor, Bresser Cross Index Directory, Detroit. They advised that LAURA MARXER was the Station WWJ-TV personality "MTDGE" in the "Playschool" program.
On July 13, 1954, GOODMAN advised that MADAY was bringing to Detroit, someone who talked to people from Venus, Clarion, etc., who are more highly advanced than earth people. They advocated the Golden Rule as the only workable rule. A meeting was to be held on July 15, 1954. GOODMAN also furnished a letter from one LAWRENCE JAN HOGE or HUGE, encouraging him in his interest in flying saucers. GOODMAN felt such an organization could use the flying saucer scare as political propaganda or from a pseudo-religious view. He said they opposed the atomic bomb and warfare.
gc
Nick
Miss LOUISE MOONEY, 8854 Stoepel, Detroit, and a clerk in the Doubleday Bookstore, Penobscott Bldg., advised she attended the July 15, 1954 meeting of the flying saucer group. The purpose was
RBS:mjv
D Let to electrik 12-16 -54
EHM
69-83894-352
RECORDED-74
6 DEC 6 1954
ESESE
INDEXED-74
EX-112
DEC 10 1:15 PM '51
REC'D ESPIONAGE
FBI
U S DEPT OF JUSTICE
SUBJECT:
Nikon
J-LINE B.V.
Wilhelminastraat 3
3511 AD Utrecht
Netherlands
DVIE
.
Director, FBI
RE: DETROIT FLYING SAUCER CLUB
ESPIONAGE - X
to organize a flying saucer club in Detroit. HENRY MADAY was behind it. She said she first met him when he came in the store to buy books on flying saucers. An organizational letter was passed out at this meeting stating the purpose of the "Flying Saucer Club of Detroit" was:
1. Exchange ideas, and in general, become aware of the flying saucer picture.
2. Invite national "saucer" speakers to Detroit, and enlighten the public.
3. Spread information on flying saucers.
4. To engage in those aspects of "saucer" interests, especially appealing to each member, such as, astronomy, engineering, spiritual, curiosity, etc.
Mid
The temporary committee setting forth these aims were: HENRY MADAY, LAURA MARXER, BRYANT XREEVE, N. D. XHUNTER, HOWARD XKEHL, HELEN REEVE, and JOHN XHOFFMAN. At this July 15, 1954, meeting, GEORGE ADAMSKI introduced CLARENCE O. XTROUT, of E. Outer Drive, Detroit, who reported seeing a flying saucer July 14, 1954, at 10:30 p.m.
Mrs. JEAN MYRUS, 8848 Stoepel, advised that the first official meeting of the Detroit Flying Saucer Club (DFSC) would be held August 19, 1954.
The Detroit Times of August 20, 1954, in an article on the August 19, 1954 meeting, said that "Scientists were wrong in discounting the flying saucer theory" and that the Club would act as a clearing house for local sightings, and submit reports to the Army test center, Wright-Patterson Air Force Base, Dayton.
Mrs. MOONEY advised that the August 19, 1954 meeting consisted mostly of people saying they had seen saucers. Mr. REEVES, an engineer, commented on each reported sighting. JOHN HOFFMAN, an advertising man, and a Mr. TROUT, of Continental Motors, reported sightings.
Mr. VERN WILLARD, 30761 Glenmuer Rd., Farmington, Michigan, advised on September 29, 1954, that the officers of the DFSC, 6432 Cass Avenue, Detroit, were:

- 2 -
Director, FBI
RE: DETROIT FLYING SAUCER CLUB
ESPIONAGE - X
HENRY MADAY, President
LAURA MARXER, Vice-President
DOLORES M. COYNE, Secretary
Mich
JOHN C. XHOFFMAN, Treasurer
He said the club was going to petition the President of the United States to make public all government information on flying saucers. He also stated that by letter, September 25, 1954, LAURA MARXER advised him he was a group leader in the club, and his duties would be to keep up with latest developments and advise his group, the names of which he would receive from Miss COYNE.
The Detroit Free Press of September 29, 1954, said in an article that the DFSC met September 28, 1954, and DESMOND LESLIE, British flying saucer authority, spoke, stating that GEORGE ADAMSKI made contact two years ago with space people in a California desert.
Mr. VERN WILLARD advised he received a letter September 30, 1954, from DOLORES M. COYNE, Secy., DFSC, setting out the discussion group in the Farmington area as:
Mr. and Mrs. BAILEY, 32740 Northwestern Highway Detroit, Mich
ALFRED S. STUDER, 28993 Parkhill Detroit, Mich
M. K. ZIMMER, 29581 Belfast, Detroit, Mich.
He received a letter from her October 4, 1954, adding to the above list:
Miss LUCY RAMBO, 30203 Overdale Ct., Rte. 4, Farmington, Mich
Mr. WILLARD, on October 13, 1954, said that LAURA MARXER asked him to call a meeting October 18, 1954. At this time, he said he felt he knew less about the club than anyone; but he thought it would make a good cover for subversive activities.
He advised the object of group discussions, according to MARXER, was:
1. To indoctrinate people to receive space people.
2. Mass landings in Detroit in October (not further explained.)

-3-
Director, FBI
RE: DETROIT FLYING SAUCER CLUB
ESPIONAGE - X
3. A saucer landed at 4:30 a.m., September 30, 1954, at Rotunda Drive and Southfield (Detroit) with strange greenish men in brown uniforms.
4. Unseen psychic forces (no further explanation.)
Mr. WILLARD said that a group met at his home October 24, 1954, consisting of:
RUTH X BAILEY and friend RUTH X LOCKOUT (phonetic)
LAURA MARXER
JOHN X HOBART
At this meeting, BAILEY said she was an athiest. The main discussion was about religion, science, and double talk, WILLARD said. Twenty such discussion groups exist. MARXER said there would be landings in Detroit in October, but she could be wrong. Before the meeting started, LUCY RAMBO called, saying, she was not coming and was resigning.
Mr. WILLARD said a group leaders meeting was held November 6,
1954, at Ed. ANDREWS, 7323 Mayburn, Dearborn. Seventeen were there.
He did not consider any of it subversive. The Board of Directors of
the DFSC are:
HENRY MADAY, President
LAURA MARXER, Vice-President
DOLORES M. COYNE, Secretary
JOHN C. HOFFMAN, Treasurer
HOWARD KEHL )
RANDALL COX ) Directors
MADELINE MENDE )
Mr. WILLARD said the purpose of this leaders meeting was to discuss how to handle issues arising in group meetings. These were:
1. Religious
Director, FBI
RE: DETROIT FLYING SAUCER CLUB
ESPIONAGE - X

2. Group representation to the Board of Directors of the club.
The group leaders are supposed to control discussion, and not offend any religious belief.
Mich
At this meeting, FRANK R. SCHUSTER, a group leader, 3022 Chalmers, Detroit, said that JOHN HOFFMAN opposed group meetings because of accusations against them of subversive activities. An unidentified person said he did not think it true, but it was alleged one member of the Board of Directors was a Communist. MADAY answered this by saying he would mention no names, but the accuser should see him about this, and the accused was not a Communist. He said fellow travellers could get in or infiltrate the club, but he was at a loss as to any way of controlling that. As a result of this meeting, WILLARD felt the group was either subversive, or a new religious group. He felt it all stems from ADAMSKI in California. He said one RTC. WILKINSON, a flying saucer speaker, had moved to Detroit.
**Entity:** John Hoffman
**Action:** Opposed group meetings
**Source:** Chalmers, Detroit
At this meeting, MADAY said that had saucer landings occurred in Detroit, in October, the group leaders would have been first to know it. He said he reported to ADAMSKI the predictions of MARXER and ADAMSKI felt she should not predict more than 30 days in advance, and, even that was no good sometimes.
Mid
On November 4, 1954, WILLARD said Miss COYNE advised him another addition to his group was Mrs. CATHERINE SCHAEFER, 25390 Harcourt, and also, Mr. and Mrs. DOYLE WOODS, 26015 La Mue ra Drive, Farmington.
CATHERINE SCHAEFER, 25390
WOODS, 26015 La Muera Dri
WILLARD said that on November 8, 1954, LAURA MARXER advised him she was resigning from the Board of Directors of the Club as she had too many outside interests, and she had to eat. She said she was going to show the film, "The Day the Earth Stood Still", around Michigan, as a result of having met two men (not named). She said ADAMSKI, in California, was her God, even admitting his earthly faults.
Mr. HAROLD THOMPSON, 13341 Livernois, a former Chief Assistant to the Secretary of State (Michigan), and Detroit's first Interracial Committee Director, furnished this office on November 18, 1954, some literature put out by Dr. CHARLES A. LAUGHEAD, 407 Clarendon Road, East Lansing, Michigan, which THOMPSON's son obtained at a flying saucer discussion or class. LAUGHEAD's material is in the form of a letter, with attachments to American editors and Publishers, stating
The text describes literature from Dr. Charles R. Laughhead of East Lansing, Michigan. Thompson's son obtained this material during a flying saucer discussion or class. Laughhead's material is in the form of a ---.
Director, FBI
RE: DETROIT FLYING SAUCER CLUB
ESPIONAGE - X
he feels they should publish it. He claims messages are received by extra sensory perception from other planets, which are watching the earth. He said one Mrs. DOROTHY MARTIN, Oak Park, Illinois, receives the messages, mostly as lessons for flying saucer clubs. He said she one day picked up her pencil, and it began to write for her in the form of these messages (apparently, it has been writing ever since). LAUGHEAD's letters to editors are dated August 30, 1954 and September 17, 1954. MARTIN's writings are set out as recordings, all in 1954, from April to August 27, 1954. One dated April 24, 1954, captioned "Telepathy Our Common Means of Communication Dr. SEARLE BEIGLOW of Lansing, Michigan". It says he was a physician and psychiatrist who suffered much, and was persecuted for his unorthodox lessons in mental disease. He seems to be the contact with outer space.
In his September 17, 1954 letter, LAUGHEAD states an important date is December 21, 1954, with the center of activity being the mid-west. There will be an earthquake, buildings will fall, Lake Michigan will rise in a wave extending to Lake Erie, and here and elsewhere, he describes how the entire world will change geologically.
On November 23, 1954, Mr. GOODMAN, of the Detroit Free Press, called to advise he was going to do a story on the DFSC and their activities. He inquired whether the FBI was investigating the club, and was advised we could make no statement one way or another regarding the organization. It is not known the date his story will appear.
The Detroit Office has conducted no investigation of the DFSC, and has received its information from those indicated above, who are voluntarily furnishing it. No investigation of the club is contemplated at this time.
Detroit has no identifiable subversive information on the officers of the club, or of LAUGHEAD or BEIGLOW (also BIGELOW). HENRY MADAY, mentioned in the Director's letter of October 8, 1954, above, has already come to the attention of the Bureau. He first came to the attention of Detroit Office, in 1942. He then used the pen name JARED LYON, was considered a religious fanatic, wrote widely on religious subjects, was connected with "The Harbingers", a "Unity Movement" group in Kansas City, and claimed objection to combatant military service in World War II. He has not been the subject of an investigation by Detroit.

-6-
Tick r - Mossburg
SAC, Detroit (65-2677) (original and one) December 16, 1954
RECORDED - 71
Director, FBI (62-83894)-352
x-128
DETROIT FLYING SAUCER CLUB
ESPIONAGE - X
Reurlet 11/30/54. You are instructed to forward to the Bureau a memorandum or report suitable for dissemination containing the pertinent information set forth in referenced letter, in order that it can be disseminated by the Bureau to OSI and to the Internal Security Division of the Department of Justice. In view of the facts set forth in referenced letter, no further investigation of this matter need be conducted by your office at this time.
ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED
DATE: 5/7/85
BY: 
CONF# 245974
EHM: alp
(4)
Tolson: <empty>
Boardman: <empty>
Nichols: <empty>
Belmont: <empty>
Harbo: <empty>
Mohr: <empty>
Parsons: <empty>
Rosen: <empty>
Tamm: <empty>
Sizoo: <empty>
Winterrowd: <empty>
Tele. Room: <empty>
Holloman: <empty>
Gandy: <empty>
DEC 20 1934
7-12-7
27L
COMM - FBI
DEC 1 6 1954
MAILED 24
DEC 10 3 17 PM '54
DEPT OF JUSTICE
F B I
<empty>
DEC 15 1927
WaBs
<signature>
Decapod 1800
(202) DeFroist (62-3817) (original and one)
RECORDED
(46888-88) 187, epofeprid
89.42
EXPIRATION - X
or defendant and for 48/08/11 before the 24/20/84. Registered
and is now on file in the Bureau of the Department of Justice
for classification and identification purposes. This is a
copy of the original record and is being forwarded to the
Division of Security and Identification of the Department of
Justice for reference and is being forwarded to the Bureau
of the FBI and is part of the record in the case of
ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED
FBI
DEPT OF JUSTICE
HOOM
DEC 16 3:17 PM 54
187 - MMDD
08030384
MAILED 2A
Can't
follow
Tele-Room
Wireless
Sixteen
Tamil
Rosen
Persoon
Note
Klub
Palmom
Nicholas
Boardman
Jason
DEC 12 1954

ST FORM NO. 64

Office Memorandum
UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Best Possible Image
TO: Director, FBI
DATE: 11/26/54
FROM: SAC, Phoenix (62-213)
SUBJECT: FLYING SAUCERS
Enclosed herewith are envelope and form letter received by the Mayor of Tucson, Arizona, and made available to SA H. HILTON MC KEE of this office. It is noted the envelope bears return address of "Aerial Phenomena Investigator", 69 S Stamford Hill, London, England" and postmark "Stoke, Newington, 10/26/51".
The form content with typewritten note bearing signature of one HAROLD MATTAN; who identifies himself as "Aerial Phenomena Investigator", seeks information regarding the sighting of any flying saucers. The inquiry is made by MATTAN "in order to filing my reports and filing system up to date it would be very much appreciated if you would kindly complete the enclosed form and return same to me".
The form calls for the following type data concerning any flying saucers observed: "Time of sighting, size, shape, composition, speed, altitude, direction, manoeuvre pattern, color, sound, length of time observed, sky conditions, visibility, direction of ground wind", also a space is provided for name, age and address of party executing the form and a space for general remarks.
Information concerning receipt and content of the above form has been furnished OSI offices at Williams AFB and Luke AFB in the Phoenix area. The original is enclosed for the Bureau, with the thought the information may be furnished Legat, London, to be channeled to interested London agencies.
EX-10
R.O.C.
JSA/hec
Encl.
RECORDED - 36
INDEXED - 36
62-93 894-353
12-10
8 NOV 30 1954
26
CROATIA HBC
ORD DE. REC
NOV 30 4 26 PM 54
3 NOV 30 1954
MR. JONES
NOV 30 5 18 PM '54
INDEXED 30
EIVED RECORDED 30
T JUSTICE
n.com
SUBJECT: <empty>
FROM : <empty>
TO : <empty>
DYIB:
Office of the Secretary of State
crig. and duplicate
1-yellow
1-Liaison Sect. tickler
1-Mr. Mannion
62-83894-353
Date: December 9, 1954

To: Director of Special Investigations
The Inspector General
Department of the Air Force
The Pentagon
Washington 25, D. C.

From: John Edgar Hoover, Director
Federal Bureau of Investigation
Subject: FLYING SAUCERS
This Bureau's Office at Phoenix, Arizona, received from the Mayor of Tucson, Arizona, a form letter which he received from "Aerial Phenomena Investigator," 69 Stamford Hill, London, N. 16, England. The envelope containing the form letter was postmarked "Stoke, Newington, 10-26-54." The form letter with a typewritten note bearing the signature of Harold Mattan, who identified himself as "Aerial Phenomena Investigator," seeks information regarding the sighting of flying saucers. Mattan indicated that the purpose of his inquiry was "in order to bring my reports and filing system up to date it would be very much appreciated if you would kindly complete the enclosed form and return same to me."
The form calls for the following type data concerning any flying saucers observed: "Time of sighting, size, shape, composition, speed, altitude, direction, maneuvre pattern, color, sound, length of time observed, sky conditions, visibility, direction of ground wind." On the form is provided a space for the name, age and address of the person executing the form and a space for general remarks.
Mattan is unknown in the files of this Bureau. The above information has been furnished your Offices at Williams AFB and Luke AFB.
DEC 8 4 30 PM '54
he (See note on P. 2)
<signature>
SECRET - AIR COURIER
Tolson: <empty>
Boardman: <empty>
Nichols: 1
Belmont: <empty>
Harbo: <empty>
Mohr: <empty>
Parsons: 1
Rosen: <empty>
Tamm: <empty>
Sizoo: <empty>
Winterrowd: <empty>
Tele. Room: <empty>
Holloman: <empty>
Gandy: <empty>
London, Engla
- Foreign Servic
JJM:kfc/bpk bph
(6)
AED
PROPRIETAS AGENCIES
A. D FIELD LETTERS: <empty>
ADVISED L.C. T NG: <empty>
SLIP(S) O: 2040 Bk
DATE: DEC 9/1/77
<signature>
276
COMM - FBI
DEC - 9 1954
MAILED 19
Gandy
64 DEC 16 1954
DEC 7 0 1924
I-111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111
RENOVA AG
203
U.S. DEPT OF JUSTICE
FBI
C 24 AM 8-51
dec 9 6
DEC 8 4 PM 54
9 DEC 10 TO AM 5:42 RECEIVED - BOARDMA
abdom
9 DEC 2011 28 AM 54
DEC 10 1954
RECEIVED - BL
8 DEC 1988

ATTENTION LEGAL ATTACHE, LONDON:
You may desire to advise your sources concerning the receipt of this communication from Mattan and concerning the type of information he is desirous of receiving.
r
62-83894-353
ENCLOSURE
From,
AERIAL PHENOMENA INVESTIGATOR.
69 Stamford Hill
London, N.16
England
STOKE NEWINGTON
7 15PM
26 OCT
1954
N.16.
CIVILD
JOIN
THE CITY MAYOR,
TUCSON.
ARIZONA
U. S. A.
Date: 1-2-1950.
Time of sighting: <empty>
Size: <empty>
Shape: <empty>
Composition: <empty>
Speed: <empty>
Altitude: <empty>
Direction: <empty>
Maneuvre Pattern: <empty>
Colour: <empty>
n: <empty>
Sound: <empty>
Length of time observed: <empty>
Sky conditions

VISIBILITY

Visibility:<empty>

Direction of ground wind:<empty>

Name ; age; and address.:<empty>
General remarks: PLACE WHERE SEEN. ETC.
& WITNESS

RE.Fly ing Saucers
Dear Sir Madam,
In order to bring my Reports and filing system up to date-it would be very much appreciated If you would kindly complete the enclosed form and return same to me

69 Stamford-hill London, N.16 England.
Yours sincerely
Aerial phenomena Investigator.
December 17, 1954
RECORDED-42
62-83894-354
INDEXED-42
EX-130
Miss Marian L./White
Box 40
Thousand Palms, California
Dear Miss White:
Your letter dated December 6, 1954, has been received.
Although I would like to be of service, information in FBI files is confidential and available for official use only. I would like to point out also that this Bureau is strictly a fact-finding agency and does not make evaluations or draw conclusions as to the character or integrity of any individual, publication or organization.
I know you will understand the reason for these rules and will not infer either that we do or that we do not have the information you desire.
Sincerely yours,
Jordi
John Edgar Hoover
Director
NOTE: "Aboard a Flying Saucer" is not identifiable in Bufiles. It is to be noted that correspondent did not furnish its author's name.
Per call to the Library of Congress "Aboard a Flying Saucer" was written by Truman Bethurum. In June, 1954, an inquiry was made by the Cincinnati Office concerning Bethurum and his flying disk lectures since that office had received a complaint similar to current correspondent's. (62-83894-342) No other references were located which might be identical with subject of current inquiry.
Tolson: 
Boardman: 
Nichols: 
Belmont: 
Harbo: 
Mohr: 
Parsons: 
Rosen: 
Tamm: 
Sizoo: 
Winterrowd: 
Tele. Room: 
Holloman: 
Gandy:
DCL:rg
(3) rg
COMM - FBI
DEC 17 1954
MAILED 24
Del
2019
REFORJED-AS
DEI XO
in identifiable in "request" is not identifiable in "request" is not identifiable in "request" is not identifiable in "request" is not identifiable in "request" is not identifiable in "request" is not identifiable in "request" is not identifiable in "request" is not identifiable in "request" is not identifiable in "request" is not identifiable in "request" is not identifiable in "request" is not identifiable in "request" is not identifiable in "request" is not identifiable in "request" is not identifiable in "request" is not identifiable in "request" is not identifiable in "request" is not identifiable in "request" is not identifiable in "request" is not identifiable in "request" is not identifiable in "request" is not identifiable in "request" is not identifiable in "request" is not identifiable in "request" is not identifiable in "request" is not identifiable in "request" is not identifiable in "request" is not identifiable in "request" is not identifiable in "request" is not identifiable in "request" is not identifiable in "request" is not identifiable in "request" is not identifiable in "request" is not identifiable in "request" is not identifiable in "request" is not identifiable in "request" is not identifiable in "request" is not identifiable in "request" is not identifiable in "request" is not identifiable in "request" is not identifiable in "request" is not identifiable in "request" is not identifiable in "request" is not identifiable in "request" is not identifiable in "request" is not identifiable in "request" is not identifiable in "request" is not identifiable in "request" is not identifiable in "request" is not identifiable in "request" is not identifiable in "request" is not identifiable in "request" is not identifiable in "request" is not identifiable in "request" is not identifiable in "request" is not identifiable in "request" is not identifiable in "request" is not identifiable in "request" is not identifiable in "request" is not identifiable in "request" is not identifiable in "request" is not identifiable in "request" is not identifiable in "request" is not identifiable in "request" is not identifiable in "request" is not identifiable in "request" is not identifiable in "request" is not identifiable in "request" is not identifiable in "request" is not identifiable in "request" is not identifiable in "request" is not identifiable in "request" is not
No other references were located which might whet the appetite of the prospective buyer. The property was made by the Cincinnati Office of Price Administration in 1954. It was written by Truman Bellman. "Apotheosis of Congress" was written by Truman Bellman. "Per callo the Librator" was written by Truman Bellman. "Sancert" was written by Truman Bellman. "Per callo the Librator" was written by Truman Bellman. "Apotheosis of Congress" was written by Truman Bellman. "Per callo the Librator" was written by Truman Bellman. "Sancert" was written by Truman Bellman. "Per callo the Librator" was written by Truman Bellman. "Apotheosis of Congress" was written by Truman Bellman. "Per callo the Librator" was written by Truman Bellman. "Sancert" was written by Truman Bellman. "Per callo the Librator" was written by Truman Bellman. "Apotheosis of Congress" was written by Truman Bellman. "Per callo the Librator" was written by Truman Bellman. "Sancert" was written by Truman Bellman. "Per callo the Librator" was written by Truman Bellman. "Apotheosis of Congress" was written by Truman Bellman. "Per callo the Librator" was written by Truman Bellman. "Sancert" was written by Truman Bellman. "Per callo the Librator" was written by Truman Bellman. "Apotheosis of Congress" was written by Truman Bellman. "Per callo the Librator" was written by Truman Bellman. "Sancert" was written by Truman Bellman. "Per callo the Librator" was written by Truman Bellman. "Apotheosis of Congress" was written by Truman Bellman. "Per callo the Librator" was written by Truman Bellman. "Sancert" was written by Truman Bellman. "Per callo the Librator" was written by Truman Bellman. "Apotheosis of Congress" was written by Truman Bellman. "Per callo the Librator" was written by Truman Bellman. "Sancert" was written by Truman Bellman. "Per callo the Librator" was written by Truman Bell
Tobacco
Bourbons
Whiskeys
Rye
Rye Whiskey
Corn
Wheat
Malt
COMM - 431
DEC 1 2024
MAILED 24
per: 100
(e)
DEC 201954
DECEMBER 6, 1954
MR EDGAR HOOVER,
DEPT OF JUSTICE,
WASHINGTON, D.C.
DEAR MR HOOVER;
(8)
I HAVE MET AND TALKED WITH THE MAN WHO WROTE THE BOOK, "ABOARD A FLYING SAUCER". HE SOUNDS SINCERE BUT I AM ALWAYS SCEPTICAL AND I HAVE BEEN WONDERING IF HE COULD BE TRYING TO PUT OVER ANY PROPAGANDA.
I AM PRESIDENT OF THE PALM SPRINGS REPUBLICAN CLUB, JUST BY WAY OF IDENTIFICATION, AND A NUMBER OF MY MEMBERS HEARD HIM AND WE WOULD LIKE TO KNOW IF HE IS ALRIGHT.
ANYTHING YOU TELL ME WILL BE KEPT IN STRICTEST CONFIDENCE.
VERY TRULY YOURS,
Marian L. White
BOX 40
1000 PALMS
CALIFORNIA
Flying Saucers
RECORDED-42
EX-130
62-83894-354
DEC 20 1954
NML
ack 12-17-54
DCL
Mot
01

RECEIVED - 6
JAN 6 4
BOARDMAN
31 PM '55
JAN 6 3:05 PM '55
BOH

JAN 6 5:44 PM '55
1988
OF AMERICA
IN
AGENCY
INVESTIGATION
FBI
DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE
FD-36
Mr. Tolson.
Mr. Boardman
Mr. Nichols
Mr. Belmont
FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION
Mr. Harbo.
UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE
Mr. Mohr.
Mr. Parsons.
Mr. Rosen
Mr. Tamm
Mr. Sizoo.
Mr. Winterrowd.
Tele. Room
Mr. Holloman.
Transmit the following Teletype message to:
Miss Gandy
FBI, DETROIT
1/5/55
PM EST
DIRECTOR, FBI (62-83894) AIRTEL
AMSD
DETROIT FLYING SAUCERS CLUB, ESP-X. ONE LEONARD DAVIDSON, 14896
KENTFIELD, A DETROIT PD PATROLMAN WHO IS A MEMBER OF ABOVE CLUB,
ADVISED THAT RANDALL COX, WHO IS A CLUB DIRECTOR, TWICE HAS
STATED HE IS "WORKING IN CONJUNCTION WITH THE FBI AND HAS BEEN TOLD TO REPORT TO WASHINGTON, D.C. FOR A CONFERENCE." COX
REPORTEDLY SAID HE HAS BEEN INSTRUCTED TO BRING ANOTHER CLUB
OFFICER, JOHN C. HOFFMAN, WITH HIM. HOFFMAN AND DAVIDSON ARE
COUSINS. WHEN THE TIME CAME TO GO TO WASHINGTON, COX SAID IT
WAS IMPOSSIBLE FOR HIM TO GO AND THEY WOULD DO SO LATER. BOTH
OF COX'S STATEMENTS WERE MADE WITHIN PAST MONTH. THE DETROIT
OFFICE IS PREPARING A REPORT SUITABLE FOR DISSEMINATION ON THIS
Special Agent in Charge
CLUB. IMMEDIATELY AFTER 1/15/55, COX WILL BE INTERVIEWED BY
DETROIT REGARDING ABOVE STATEMENTS, REPRIMANDED AND CAUTIONED
TO REFRAIN FROM SUCH IN THE FUTURE, UACB. A REPORT WILL THEN
BE SUBMITTED.
1/7/55
END Mr. Belmont
MC INTIRE
62-83894-355
RBS: JEP #5
RECORDED-37
(4)
CC: MR. BELMONT
20 JAN 6 1955
AND SUPERVISOR
DOM. INTEL. DIVISION
65-2677
AIRTEL
-
ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED
DATE: 3/7/85
BY: 
comp #: 845974
Approved:<signature>
Sent<empty>M
Per<empty>
JAN 10 1955
RECEIVED - BOARDMAN
RECEIVED-MAIL ROOM
FBI
U.S. DEPT. OF JUSTICE
JAN 7 4 01 PM '55
WAIVED
JAN 7
Слово
Попечения
Закр. ресол
заключения
2019
Закр.
закр.
высокие
норм
норм
регламент
процесс
доклада
SOLARIS
REBEKA
GENIALNOS NOLTMROMI DIA
RECORDED
cc - Mr. Mossburg
影
AIR-TEL
URGENT
JANUARY 7, 1955
SAC, DETROIT (65-2677) (original & 1)
DETROIT FLYING SAUCER CLUB, ESPIONAGE - X. REURAIITEI
1/5/55. BUREAU SEES NO REASON FOR YOUR OFFICE TO WAIT UNTIL 1/15/55, TO INTERVIEW RANDALL COX. INTERVIEW HIM IMMEDIATELY UNLESS THERE IS SOME GOOD REASON TO THE CONTRARY IN WHICH CASE THE BUREAU SHOULD BE ADVISED. COX SHOULD BE INTERVIEWED FOR THE PURPOSES SET FORTH IN YOUR REFERENCED AIRTEL.
2-83894-355
HOOVER
EX-110
62-83894
EKM: fjm 7M
(4)
ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED
DATE: 5/7/85
BY: 
Comp#: 245974
COMM - FBI
JAN - 7 1955
MAILED 20
Tolson: <empty>
Boardman: <empty>
Nichols: <empty>
Belmont: <empty>
Harbo: <empty>
Mohr: <empty>
Parsons: <empty>
Rosen: <empty>
Tamm: <empty>
Sizoo: <empty>
Winterrowd: <empty>
Tele. Room: <empty>
Holloman: <empty>
Gandy: <empty>
50 JAN 14 1955 2nd
СЕЛЯНО-ВОЙ
I.B.D.
U.S. DEPT OF JUSTICE
SPECIAE-ATTORNEY

STANDARD FORM NO. 64

Office Memorandum • UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

TO: Director, FBI
DATE: 1/18/55
FROM <signature>: SAC, Kansas City (66-2995)
SUBJECT: C. W. CHEEK
FLYING SAUCERS
MISC. - INFORMATION CONCERNING
<signature>
MEH
The image contains a signature.

Key Information:
*   **Date of Contact:** January 13, 1955
*   **Contacted Individual:** Mr. C. W. Cheek
*   **Contact Information:** Telephone AT 6747, Kansas City, Ks.
*   **Employment:** Aeronautical engineer at the Ford Aircraft Plant, Claycomo, Mo.
*   **Source of Information:** Investigated an agent's name in connection with a sabotage case at the Ford Plant approximately one year prior.
On January 13, 1955 Mr. C. W. XCHEEK, telephone AT 6747, Kansas City, Ks., contacted an agent of this office and advised he is employed as an aeronautical engineer at the Ford Aircraft Plant at Claycomo, Mo. He indicated he obtained the Agent's name through investigation conducted at the Ford Plant in connection with a sabotage case there approximately one year ago.
Mr. CHEEK indicated he and two other engineers had perfected plans for a "flying saucer type aircraft". He said they had been negotiating with the U. S. Air Force and the CAA for several months with regard to the sale of the plans for this aircraft to the Air Force. He also indicated that one JACK STAMPLER, Chief of Defense Department, Washington, D. C., was fully aware of the plans for this aircraft and had advised him that he should not divulge these plans to anyone other than Agents of the FBI or high ranking officers in the U. S. Air Force.
The image contains a rubber stamp that reads "EXPRO[CESS]", with a handwritten "X" over it and some scribbled lines. The context provided indicates Mr. Cheek is developing plans for a "flying saucer type aircraft" and has been negotiating with the U.S. Air Force and CAA. Jack Stampler, Chief of the Defense Department, is aware and advised Cheek not to divulge plans except to FBI agents or high-ranking Air Force officers.
(b) (3) (A)
MLS/hmg
(3)
(b) (3) (A)
1, AF Int. advised
1-26-55-DJS
RECORDED-62
A F Research + Development
advised
1-27-55
DJS
INDEXED-62
62-83894-356
EX-125
6 JAN 20 1955
<signature>
RECORDED COPY FILED IN 62-80750-2
To: Director, FBI
1/18/55
Re: C. W. Cheek
Flying Saucers
(b) (3) (A)
(b) (3) (A)
(b) (3) (A)
The above information is being furnished to the Bureau because it pertains to an alleged explanation of sightings of flying saucers. It is being furnished to the Bureau primarily, however, for the purpose of giving information to the Bureau
(b) (3) (A)
OSI locally has not been furnished the information as this matter does not involve the sighting of a flying saucer.
JAN 14 9 26 AM '55
REC'D ESPIONAGE
FBI
U S DEPT OF JUSTICE
Mr. Tolson: <empty>
Mr. Boardman: <empty>
FD-36 Mr. Nichols: <empty>
Mr. Belmont: <signature>
Mr. Harbo: <empty>
Mr. Mohr: <empty>
Mr. Parsons: <empty>
Mr. Rosen: <empty>
Mr. Tamm: <empty>
Mr. Sizoo: <empty>
Mr. Winterrowd: <empty>
Tele. Room: <empty>
Mr. Holloman: <empty>
Miss Gandy: <empty>

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION
UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

Transmit the following Teletype message to:
FBI, / DETROIT 1-12-55 AIRTEI
DIRECTOR, FBI (62-83894)
AMSD
The image contains a handwritten note with the following information:

*   A signature, appearing to be "McGethurg" or similar.
*   The text "8456 COLGATE".
DETROIT FLYING SAUCERS CLUB, ESPIONAGE-X.
AK PARK, MICH., EMPLOYED AS PARTNER, USED CAR LOT, 17177 LIVERNOIS,
DETROIT, INTERVIEWED 1-11-55 IN BUREAU CAR IN VICINITY 17177
LIVERNOIS. COX DENIED MAKING ANY STATEMENT HE WAS WORKING WITH OR
HAD ANY CONNECTION WITH FBI. HE CLAIMED SUCH ALLEGATION COULD HAVE
RISEN AS RESULT OF QUESTIONS ASKED DURING SOME MEETING AS TO
WHETHER CLUB HAD FURNISHED INFORMATION TO FBI OR OTHER GOVERNMENT
GENCY. HE REPLIED HE OR THE CLUB WOULD BE WILLING TO COOPERATE
WITH ANYONE AT ANY TIME. HE WAS CAUTIONED TO MAKE NO REPRESENTA-
TION OR STATEMENT LEAVING THE IMPRESSION HE HAD ANY CONNECTION
WITH FBI. AS TO REPORTING TO WASHINGTON, COX SAID HE AND JOHN
S. HOFFMAN, ANOTHER CLUB DIRECTOR, WERE GOING TO WASHINGTON, D.C.
TO PRESENT THEIR INFORMATION "TO THE PENTAGON" AND THEY HOPE
SEE "SOMEONE IN AIR FORCE INTELLIGENCE". COX SAID THEY INTER
AKING WITH THEM SOMEONE, OR POSSIBLY TWO, WHO HAD ACTUALLY
SIGHTED SAUCERS. IF THEY GET NO ONE TO GO THEY WILL GET
FFIDAVITS FROM SAUCER SIGHTERS. THEIR PURPOSE IN GOING IS T
URNISH WHAT INFO THEY HAVE (THIS IS IN POSSESSION OF THE CLU
N FLYING SAUCERS, SIGHTING OF THEM IN AFFIDAVIT FORM, POSSIB
The image contains handwritten annotations overlaying a document. The annotations include the words "Key" and "by". There are also numbers that appear to be "5/7/55" and "245974". The document text visible indicates "ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE", "UNCLASSIFIED", and "DATE".
The image contains handwritten text and some printed text. The handwritten text appears to be a list with numbers and possibly names or labels. The printed text on the right seems to be a list of items with some associated symbols or letters.

Key entities:

Handwritten text:
- "air- lec"
- "Dcllett"
- "1-18-55"
- "6/2"

Printed text:
- "T"
- "S"
- "T"
- "S"
- "A"
- "E"
- "C"
The image shows a document with partial text and a red pen mark, likely a signature or a mark of approval.

Text visible:
* "TO"
* "DED"

The red mark is a stylized scribble, possibly an initial or a checkmark.
The image contains text that appears to be stamped or printed. The most prominent word is "AIRTEL" in large, purple, sans-serif letters. Above "AIRTEL", smaller text reads "SAUCERS SIGHT IN". Below "AIRTEL" and to the right, there is some handwritten text, possibly a signature or date, in blue ink.
The image contains handwritten numbers: "62-83894-357" in blue and red ink, along with some printed text that appears to be part of a form ("RBS: AMW", "65-2677", "IN AFFIDAVIT FORM, PO").
RBS:AMW
(4)
65-2677
BRANCH
27 JAN 13 1955 Sent
Sent: 
Per:
Approved:
MR. BELMONT
Special Agent in Charge
COPIES DESTROYED
270 NOV 19 1964

FD-36

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION
UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

Transmit the following Teletype message to:
PAGE TWO
PHOTOGRAPHS AND TO OBTAIN WHAT INFO THEY CAN ON SAUCERS FROM THE GOVERNMENT. COX CLAIMED HE KNEW OF NO INFO THEY HAD WHICH MIGHT EFFECT THE NATIONAL DEFENSE OR INTERNAL SECURITY OF THE U.S. HE CLAIMS ONE JOHN FRY, A TECHNICIAN NOW ASSIGNED TO SANDIA AF BASE, NEW MEXICO, HAS ACTUALLY FLOWN IN A SAUCER FROM SANDIA BASE TO NEW YORK CITY, THE ROUND TRIP REQUIRING ONLY 30 MINUTES. COX SAID FRY WAS TO COME TO DETROIT IN THE FUTURE TO SPEAK. COX CLAIMS SAUCER CLUBS HAVE ACTUALLY RECEIVED MESSAGES FROM OUTER SPACE AND ALTHOUGH SAYS HE DOES NOT KNOW, HE FEELS THEY DO EXIST; HAVE BEEN SEEN BY MANY PEOPLE AND CLAIMS HE HAS SEEN THEM HIMSELF. HE FEELS THE PURPOSE OF CONTACTS WITH EARTH IS LIMITED AT THIS TIME TO PREPARING PEOPLE TO RECEIVE LANDINGS FROM OUTER SPACE. HE SAID THE SAUCERS ARE FRIENDLY TO U. S. HE SAID MESSAGES RECEIVED INDICATE ALL PLANETS BUT EARTH HAVE CONQUERED OUTER SPACE. OUTER SPACE PEOPLE CONSIDER THOSE ON EARTH THE LOWEST FORM OF UNIVERSAL EXISTENCE. HOFFMAN IMPRESSED AGENTS AS BEING ONLY A LAYMAN (FORMERLY IN USAF, WW II) WHO HAS BEEN CARRIED BEYOND THE REALM OF SCIENTIFIC FACT INTO THAT OF POSSIBLE SCIENTIFIC FICTION. COX CLAIMS THAT DR. CHARLES A. LAUGHEAD, MICH. STATE COLLEGE PROFESSOR WHO WAS DISMISSED FOR HIS ACTIVITIES AND PREVIOUS PREDICTIONS OF GEOLOGIC UPHEAVALS WHICH WERE TO HAVE OCCURRED 12-21-54, WAS MISUNDERSTOOD BUT ALLOWED HIS THINKING TO DWELL TOO MUCH ON
Approved:<empty>
Special Agent in Charge
Sent<empty>M
Per<empty>
REC'D BELMONT
FBI - JUSTICE
JAN 13 4 51 PM '55
RECEIVED
FBI
COMMUNICATIONS
JAN 13 4 15 PM '55

FD-36

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION
UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

Transmit the following Teletype message to:
PAGE THREE
POSSIBILITIES OF FLYING SAUCERS AND OUTER SPACE. MUCH OF COX'S STATEMENTS BEAR CLOSE RESEMBLANCE TO THE WRITINGS OF DOROTHY MARTIN, OAK PARK, ILLINOIS, MENTIONED IN DETROIT LETTER, 11-30-54. IT IS REQUESTED THE BUREAU ADVISE WHETHER ANY ATTEMPTS BE MADE BY DETROIT TO OBTAIN ANY OF THE MATERIAL MENTIONED BY COX AS BEING IN POSSESSION OF THE FLYING SAUCER CLUB. THIS PROBABLY WOULD REQUIRE CONTACTS WITH OTHER OFFICERS OF THE CLUB, WHICH MIGHT BE UNDESIRABLE, PARTICULARLY DUE TO THE DOUBT EXISTING THAT THEY COULD BE CONTACTED ON A CONFIDENTIAL BASIS. REPORT FOLLOWS.
MC INTIRE
END
74013
2022
Approved:<empty>
Special Agent in Charge
Sent<empty> M
Per<empty>
I will tell you and
COWW-EBI
2018 TNAI
JAN 19 1955
RECEIVED
FBI - JUSTICE
U. S. DEPT. OF JUSTICE
JAN 18 9 32 AM '55
JAN 18 12 17 PM '55
(5)
ROLLOMATIC
Товарлье
DEC08ED - 43
T3
Mr. Mossburg
AIR - TEL
RECORDED - 43
JANUARY 18, 1955
62-83874-357 SAC, DETROIT (65-2677) (Orig. & 1)
K-103
DETROIT FLYING SAUCER CLUB, ESPIONAGE - X. REURAIR-TEL 1-12-55.
INVESTIGATION RE SIGHTING OF FLYING SAUCERS AND INFORMATION
CONCERNING FLYING SAUCERS IS WITHIN THE JURISDICTION OF THE AIR FORCE AND NOT THE BUREAU. THE BUREAU DOES NOT DESIRE YOUR OFFICE TO OBTAIN FROM CAPTIONED CLUB OR ITS MEMBERS, MATERIAL CONCERNING FLYING SAUCERS. THE INFORMATION IN YOUR REFERENCED AIR-TEL AND INFORMATION CONCERNING MATERIAL REPORTEDLY IN POSSESSION OF CAPTIONED CLUB SHOULD BE REFERRED TO IN THE REPORT BEING PREPARED BY YOUR OFFICE. A COPY OF YOUR REPORT SHOULD BE FURNISHED TO OSI LOCALLY.
HOOPER
Detailsregt auk
21/1955 EXK
ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED
DATE: 5/7/85
BY: 
comp# 245974
62-83894
Det 21
7
2/21/55
0-16 Det Resolving
surgi, EKu
ks
EHM: rmp: dlt def
(4)
2/22/55
Petroleum Products
2/11/55
2/3/55
0-1 t Ref to ads
when right to be
2uls, Edw
Ward
Tolson: 
Boardman: 
Nichols: 
Belmont: 
Harbo: 
Mohr: 
Parsons: 
Rosen: 
Jamm: 
Zoo: 
Interrowd: 
E. Room: 
Roman:
22 JUN 08 15:13 6M
22 MAY 08 15:13 6M
22 MAY 08 15:13 6M
MAILED II
JAN 18 1955
COMM - FBI
39
Room: 
oman: 
4 JAN 25 1955

CONFIDENTIAL
DECLASSIFIED
The image is a seal of the United States Department of Defense.

DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE
HEADQUARTERS UNITED STATES AIR FORCE
WASHINGTON 25, D. C.
Authority:
NND 90986
27-0-718
20 APR 1955
Honorable J. Edgar Hoover
Director, Federal Bureau of Investigation
United States Department of Justice
Washington 25, D. C.
Received from OSI
Date
ATTN: Mr. Daniel J. Sullivan
Liaison Agent
RE: CHARLES A. YOST
OC Research Laboratory
St. Clair Shores, Michigan
Dear Sir:
ALR
C
Attached are copies of a letter recently forwarded to this office by the Director of Special Investigations, Alaskan Air Command. In addition to the address in captioned subject, the letter reflects a return address of the 18th Cml. Tech. Intel. Det., 100th Cml. Grp., Fort McClellan, Alabama.
Flying Saucers
The original letter was furnished by Major William H. Greenhalgh, Jr., Commander, 5004th Air Intelligence Service Squadron, Elmendorf AFB, APO 942, Seattle, Washington. Major Greenhalgh advised that the letter was turned over to Flight A of his organization by Doctor Kennedy, DDS, Nome, Alaska. Major Greenhalgh identified Dr. Kennedy as a private pilot who has in the past been the source of several reports to this organization. Dr. Kennedy reported that the letter was found in a book which he had loaned to Mr. Small over a year ago and which was recently returned.
ALASKA
Major Greenhalgh identified Mr. Small as a type-setter for the Nome Nugget, a newspaper which is published three times a week. Mr. Small was further described as being peculiar and a definite introvert type. He is a near alcoholic and is presently living with an Eskimo woman who is an alcoholic.
2 ENCL.,
Major Greenhalgh advised that Mrs. Boucher, who is mentioned in the letter, publishes the Nome Nugget.
A search of the files of this office and the files of OSI, Alaskan Air Command, failed to locate information pertinent to the persons mentioned in the attached letter.
AGENCY: 100 ghter xcel. to Detroit (0-24)
CONFIDENTIAL
DATE FORW.: 4/13/55
INDEXED - 15
tinent to the persons men-
62-83894-358
MEADOWBRIDGE
10 APR 1955
Ex - 113
HOW FORW.: 
BY:
Brokerage
ESP SEQ

CONFIDENTIAL
Ltr to FBI, File 27-0-718, RE: CHARLES A. YOST, OC Research Laboratory, St. Clair Shores, Michigan (Cont)
The attached letter is furnished for your information and any action deemed necessary.
Sincerely,
LYLE D. LUTTON, JR., Lt Colonel, USAF
Asst Chief, Counter Intelligence Div
Directorate of Special Investigations
The Inspector General
1 Incl (in dup)
Photostat, Ltr fr Yost
to Small dtd 14 Nov 54
cc: Assistant Chief of Staff, G-2
Department of the Army
w/incl (in dup)

2 CONFIDENTIAL
14 November, 1953
18th Cml.Tech.Intel.Det.
100th Cml.Grp.
Fort McClellan, Alabama
Dear Mr. Small,
Youp letter was recieved Nov.12,1953. Thank you very much for replying and offering your aid.We also wish to thank Mrs.Boucher.
As you will notice my address has changed. Until further notice it will be as shown in the upper right hand corner.
At the present time our research activities are being kept secret. However, at a time in the future when we have no need to use this security measure, I will personally write and inform you of what we were, and possibly are, doing. Our research does have a connection with the "flying saucer", although it is at present a secondary issue. The main body of our research is with electric fields. (It is not a "copy" of what Keyhoe mentioned in his recent book relating to the Canadian Project. The research with which we are concered has been carried on for many years now by a research foundation in Western United States-which is not connected to us.) The "flying Saucer" reports are of value to us because they may give clues toward the investigation of various phases in our research.
I have told you these things so that you might understand the need for our recieving saucer reports,also because you are no doubt curious about our activities.(Every once in a while I will inform you of our activity.) Because you and Mrs.Boucher are taking the time and trouble to help us - in turn,we wish to cooperate as best we can to in some way return the favor. So,do not hesitate in calling on us in the future.
Yours truly,
Charles G. Gast
Coordinator
Coordinator
OC Research Laboratory, in
St. Clair Shores, Michigan
E-1
EXCLUSION
62-83894-358

4-22

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION
RECORDS SECTION

4-25, 1955
[ ] Name Check Unit-Room 6523
[x] Attention Igor
[ ] Service Unit-Room 6524
[ ] Forward to File Review
[x] Return to Morphing Ext. 2104
Supervisor: <empty>
Room: 4730
[ ] All References
[x] Subversive References
[ ] Main References Only
[ ] Main <empty> References Only
[ ] Restrict to Locality of <empty>
[ ] Breakdown
[ ] Buildup
[ ] Variations
[ ] Exact Name Only
[ ] Exact Spelling
[ ] Check for Alphabetical Loyalty Form
SUBJECT: Charles A. Yost
Address: <empty>
Localities: <empty>
Birthdate & Place: <empty>
R#: <empty>
Date: 4-25
Searcher Initial: H. D. M.
<empty>: <empty>
FILE NUMBER: N.B.
SERIAL: <empty>
Charles
N1
77 - 5484
N1
62 - 86617
N1
46 - 40145
WB
121 - 25182
N1
100 - 214475
N1
62 - 75147 - 37 - 113, Encl. Pl.
N1
65 - 12352 - 55
N1
40 - 28717 - 8, 7
N1
100 - 64700 - 1209, P 2831
N1
98 - 2366 - 502

NUMEROUS REFERE
4-22a

SEARCH SLIP

Subj: Charles A. Yost
Supervisor: Mossburg
Room: 4730
R#: <empty>
Date: 4-25
Searcher Initial: H.D.M.
<table><tr><th></th><th>FILE</th><th>NUMBER</th><th>SERI AL</th></tr><tr><td></td><td></td><td>8688</td><td></td></tr><tr><td>NI</td><td></td><td>28919</td><td></td></tr><tr><td></td><td></td><td>700</td><td>H. Ene</td></tr><tr><td>NI</td><td></td><td>1004,1</td><td></td></tr><tr><td>WR</td><td></td><td></td><td></td></tr><tr><td>M</td><td></td><td></td><td></td></tr><tr><td>NI</td><td></td><td></td><td></td></tr><tr><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td></tr><tr><td>MI</td><td>700-351640</td><td></td><td></td></tr><tr><td></td><td>343</td><td></td><td></td></tr><tr><td>ND</td><td>65-18188</td><td></td><td></td></tr><tr><td>ND</td><td></td><td></td><td></td></tr><tr><td></td><td>100 -</td><td>9/1015</td><td></td></tr><tr><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td></tr><tr><td></td><td>P-21A,</td><td></td><td></td></tr><tr><td>N</td><td></td><td>96</td><td></td></tr><tr><td>NI</td><td>100
171-1049</td><td>1811908</td><td></td></tr></table>

-2-
4-22

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION
RECORDS SECTION

4-25, 1955
[ ] Name Check Unit-Room 6523
[x] Attention Igou
[ ] Service Unit-Room 6524
[ ] Forward to File Review
[x] Return to Mossburg Ext. 2104
Supervisor: <empty>
Room: 4730
[ ] All References
[x] Subversive References
[ ] Main References Only
[ ] Main <empty> References Only
[x] Restrict to Locality of: alaska
[ ] Breakdown
[ ] Buildup
[ ] Variations
[ ] Exact Name Only
[ ] Exact Spelling
[ ] Check for Alphabetical Loyalty Form
SUBJECT: Mr. Small
Address: <empty>
Localities: <empty>
Birthdate & Place: <empty>
<empty>
Searcher
R# <empty>
Date: 4-25
Initial: H.D.M.
FILE NUMBER: SERIAL
N. R. in Alaska
65-58068-1003, Can
65-59975-80
In Lamphere's Office

-3-
4-22

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION
RECORDS SECTION

```json
{"box_2d": [75, 4, 911, 804], "text_content": "4-25\n,"}
```

4-25 , 1955
[ ] Name Check Unit-Room 6523
[x] Attention: Lyou
[ ] Service Unit-Room 6524
[ ] Forward to File Review
[x] Return to: Mossburg Ext.: 2104
Supervisor
Room: 4730
[ ] All References
[x] Subversive References
[ ] Main References Only
[ ] Main <empty> References Only
[x] Restrict to Locality of Alaska
[ ] Breakdown
[ ] Buildup
[ ] Variations
[ ] Exact Name Only
[ ] Exact Spelling
[ ] Check for Alphabetical Loyalty Form
SUBJECT Mrs. Boucher
Address <empty>
Localities <empty>
Birthdate & Place <empty>
R# <empty>
Date 4-25
Searcher
Initial H.D.M.
FILE NUMBER: n. R.
SERIAL: in Alaska

FILE NUMBER: 9-7368
SERIAL: Pa MF

FILE NUMBER: 31-44946-2,
SERIAL: Utah MF

FILE NUMBER: ND 100-57535 34
SERIAL: Wash.
Ore.

FILE NUMBER: N.R.
SERIAL: in Alaska

FILE NUMBER: <empty>
SERIAL: <empty>

FILE NUMBER: <empty>
SERIAL: <empty>

FILE NUMBER: <empty>
SERIAL: <empty>

FILE NUMBER: <empty>
SERIAL: <empty>

FILE NUMBER: <empty>
SERIAL: <empty>

FILE NUMBER: <empty>
SERIAL: <empty>

- 4-
4-22

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION
RECORDS SECTION

4-25, 1955
[ ] Name Check Unit-Room 6523
[x] Attention: Igon
[ ] Service Unit-Room 6524
[ ] Forward to File Review
[x] Return to: Mossburg Ext.: 2104
Supervisor: <empty>
Room: 4750
[ ] All References
[x] Subversive References
[ ] Main References Only
[ ] Main <empty> References Only
[x] Restrict to Locality of: alaska
[ ] Breakdown
[ ] Buildup
[ ] Variations
[ ] Exact Name Only
[ ] Exact Spelling
[ ] Check for Alphabetical Loyalty Form
SUBJECT: Dr. Kennedy
Address: <empty>
Localities: <empty>
Birthdate & Place: <empty>
R#: <empty>
Date: 4-25
Searcher
Initial: H. D. M.
FILE NUMBER: <empty>
SERIAL: <empty>
ND 65-58025 - 110, 104,

-5-
CARL F. CASSIN,
MANAGING DIRECTOR,
[x]

HARRY E.TUTTLE,
RESIDENT MANAGER
HOTEL Gralynn
No
The image is a coat of arms with the name "GRALYNN" on a banner below it. The crest features a lion. The shield contains a design with what appears to be an animal's head, possibly a wolf or dog. There is also text above the coat of arms that reads "NC" and "Please Excuse" and "pencil MIAMI, FLORIDA".
Please excuse pencil
MIAMI, FLORIDA
GRALYNN

Dear Ms. Hoover - CatherING
 Auchentbaugh

I am writing to you with an urgent request since my previous letters to the President have been ignored. Flying Saucers

Despite all the ridicule regarding Flying Saucers - they are real - Furthermore their source and activities are incredible and a serious threat to our country, and all countries.
I have prom. the President was 4 to 1000 men he gone with and
RECORDED-99
INDEXED-99
that if 62-83844-359
wild pend
6 JUL 29 1955
Considered
peripheral
Agree
vige
50 AUG 3 1958
ability to follow
directions and plenty of ability to
watch during the time the moon
out - I will guarantee each
and everyone will see something
that will prove Fancera and
moose are real and attacking
us, via hail, tornadoes, and so called "weather"
They never replied. No one will even check my story - yet it comes with a guarantee.
What more can I do? If I get excited they'll think me a raving maniac. As is, I'm merely "having hallucinations" I guess.
I guarantee anyone who has the above mentioned qualities can also have my hallucinations.
36693051 5201 901 dua
19 S u beara so . 1200 of "Rem 008100 Toof t
Delos de 29008
FBI
RECEIVED
FBI
RECEIVED - NICHOLS 3 PM 55
JUL 27 10:25 AM '56 MR JONES
2010:010
(S)

STANDARD FORM NO. 64

Office Memorandum
UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

TO: Mr. Nichols
FROM: M. A. Jones <signature>
DATE: July 26, 1955
Tolson: <empty>
Boardman: <empty>
Nichols: <empty>
Belmont: <empty>
Harbo: <empty>
Mohr: <empty>
Parsons: <empty>
Rosen: <empty>
Tamm: <empty>
Sizoo: <empty>
Winterrowd: <empty>
Tele. Room: <empty>
Holloman: <empty>
Gandy: <empty>
SUBJECT: CATHERINE AUGHENBAUGH 
INFORMATION CONCERNING Florida
Correspondent submitted a six-page rambling and partly incoherent letter postmarked July 24, 1955, wherein she requests a number of "F. B. I. men" to assist her in watching for flying saucers which she claims are real. She remarks she has previously written letters to the President, but that they have been ignored. Bufiles reflect no record identifiable with correspondent.
RECOMMENDATION:

No acknowledgment of correspondent's letter in view of
her apparent disturbed condition.

<signature>
RECORDED-99 62-83894-360
INDEXED-99

6 JUL 29 1955
JRH:afb <signature>
(2)
<signature>

AUG 3 1955

CARL F. CASSIN,
MANAGING DIRECTOR.

HOTEL Gralynn

HARRY E.TUTTLE,
RESIDENT MANAGER
MIAMI, FLORIDA
You have exactly the shaped eyes best suited to using this equipment - and your nose is shaped right too. Strangely enough, this matters! Even how eyes are spaced matters! Please try to get F.B.I. watchers with large open-end eyes, widely spaced. Low-bridge nose. Patience and calm nerves will be necessary too.

If you can get some quicksilver bring that along too! Or tin.

I have a great deal of respect for the F.B.I. I know it's terrific at finding the men they want. Will they do a switch -
must be some peripheral vision. No reward but excitement
or will this work better:

50 Beautiful Spacegirls 50
visible
In the Stratosphere
Get your telescopes here and
come in and
Enjoy the Show.
It's Out of this world.

Seriously Mr. Hoover - how's
about it? Who would doubt
the witness and reports of our
F.B.I.?
Sincerely
Catherine (S.B.E.) Aughenbaugh
(Agents before the Eyes)
CARL F. CASSIN,
MANAGING DIRECTOR

HOTEL Gralynn

HARRY E.TUTTLE,
RESIDENT MANAGER
Key Information:

*   **Entity:** Gralynn
*   **Associated Person:** Harry E. Tuttle
*   **Title:** Resident Manager
*   **Location:** Miami, Florida
MIAMI, FLORIDA
Mr. Hoover - would you please help me? Can you have some F.B. I. men watch?

Starting July 26th, during the entire time the moon is out, I need qualified watchers whose sanity is unquestioned. The same men must keep watch, so that they can begin to comprehend the various disguises and activities of the "Saucers and worse."

Supply them with the following equipment so you'll know - it's no trick:
Valuete(?)fitted (lipstick & powder puff) case - in black plastic opera glass (fake) carrier black satin red lined container - Bloomingdale Dept. Store, N.Y.C. you will need your F.B.I. skill here - The manufacturer has gone out of business! (The lipstick case is Empty, About $1/2- ) It does NOT have apberd glass qualities

1 Combination magnifying glass, magnifying mirror, compass, fire starter from thorenska, N.Y.C. about $3.00.

They will give you a very cheap souvenir telescope. If they don't buy one. You'll need it. Don't buy a good telescope. It only magnifies glare.

optional - any kind of gold metal plates, Tubes, etc. Gold foil.
MR. JONES
JUL 25 3 30 PM '55
RECEIVED
FBI
US DEPT OF JUSTICE
B F B I
F B I
RECEIVED-DIRECTOR
U.S DEPT OF JUSTICE
JUL 25 11:58 AM '55
DO-6
OFFICE OF DIRECTOR
FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION
UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE
Mr. Tolson: <empty>
Mr. Boardman: <signature>
Mr. Nichols: <signature>
Mr. Belmont: <empty>
Mr. Harbo: <empty>
Mr. Mohr: <empty>
Mr. Parsons: <empty>
Mr. Rosen: <empty>
Mr. Tamm: <empty>
Mr. Jones: <empty>
Mr. Sizoo: <empty>
Mr. Winterrowd: <empty>
Tele. Room: <empty>
Mr. Holloman: <empty>
Miss Holmes: <empty>
Miss Gandy: <empty>
grobo nicholo mems
7/26/55
JRM
LBI BI
BESCHIKBAARHEIDSMICROBI
YR S2 15.12.86 DELHI

Office Memorandum • UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

TO: MR. L.V. BOARDMAN
DATE: October 18, 1955
FROM: MR. A. H. BELMONT
SUBJECT: FLYING SAUCERS
Tolson
Boardman
Nichols
Belmont
Harbo
Mohr
Parsons
Rosen
At the Executive Session of Intelligence Advisory Committee (IAC) this morning (10/18), Mr. Dulles, of CIA, discussed a report received from party of Senator Russell, traveling through Russia, that Senator Russell had seen a flying saucer.
Tamm
Sizoo
Winterrowd
Tele. Room
Holloman
Gandy
(b) (3) (A)
{"box_2d": [0, 1, 60, 93], "text_content": "(b) (3) (A)"}
The consensus of the discussion at the IAC meeting was that this could have been any one of a number of things, including a helicopter, but that other members of the party should be interviewed and, meanwhile, the matter should be kept quiet to avoid concern on the part of the Russians which would result in limiting of United States travel in Russia.
For your information.
AHB:LL
(5)
cc--Mr. Boardman
cc--Mr. Belmont
cc--Mr. Branigan
cc--Mr. M. V. Kuhrts, Liaison Section
FOR INSTRUCTIONS AS
TO DISSEMINATION
SEE FILE 62-90718-230
59 OCT 28 1955
18 OCT 24 1955
62-83894
NOT RECORDED
145 OCT 25 1955
DEP SEC
ORIGINAL COPY FILED IN 62-90718-480

STANDARD POLICY NO. 64
Office Memorandum • UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT
TO: L. V. Boardman
<signature>
11-7-55
FROM: A. H. Belmont
<signature>
SUBJECT: FLYING SAUCERS
DATE: November 4, 1955
<signature>

Tolson: <empty>
Boardman: <empty>
Nichols: <empty>
Belmont: [x]
Harbo: <empty>
Mohr: <empty>
Parsons: <empty>
Rosen: <empty>
Tamm: <empty>
Sizoo: <empty>
Winterrowd: <empty>
Tele. Room: <empty>
Holloman: <empty>
Gandy: <empty>
that at Executive
Remymemo to you 10-18-55 advising that at Executive Session of Intelligence Advisory Committee (IAC) on 10-18-55, Mr. Dulles of CIA discussed report received from party of Senator Richard B. Russell of Georgia, traveling through Russia, that Senator Russell had seen a flying saucer.
The details were not clear and it was decided the matter should be kept quiet and all members of party interviewed. Attached memos from CIA received 11-3-55 advise members of party debriefed and following is summary of their observations: Party was traveling by train from Baku to Tiflis and after dark Russell noticed a small greenish-yellow glowing ball rising quite rapidly in sky. He informed other members of the party and a few minutes later they observed another object. Mr. Efron saw only 2 lights resembling eyes. Colonel Hathaway saw a shadowy object with similar light in middle at the top and rotating light or lights similar to exhausts at the base. Senator Russell had impression object could have been as small as a rocket, Mr. Gros and Colonel Hathaway considered size comparable to U. S. jet fighter, but Hathaway stated object did not resemble any air-craft, rocket or missile he had ever seen. All agree object was rotating during its rise along its initial steep trajectory. Based on interviews so far, CIA advises only testimony which would support existence of flying saucer or radically unconventional aircraft is that of Colonel Hathaway. All other observations can probably be explained as steep-climbing aircraft or missile or exhaust of normal jet aircraft in a dive, followed by a sharp pull-up in such a way nothing could be seen until exhaust visible to observers on train, but possible aircraft was indeed of the short or almost vertical take-off variety. CIA states further discussion will probably be required to completely resolve matter but indicates that evidence does not appear sufficiently firm to warrant conclusion that Soviets have developed a radically new type aircraft.
ACTION:
For your information.
RECORDED - 65
EX-118
INDEXED - 65
2 ENCL.
Enclosure
52 NOV 14 1955
(4)
cc:
LVBoardman
AHBelmont
ARJones
62-83894-36
7 NOV 8 1955
Best Possible Image

8 OCT 1955
MEMORANDUM FOR: Director of Central Intelligence
SUBJECT: Sightings of Flying Saucers or Unconventional Aircraft
1. All four participants in the observation of the flying saucers or unconventional aircraft have now been debriefed and the following is a summary of their observations.
2. The party was travelling by train from Baku to Tiflis at the specific request of Senator Russell who tried to use rail transportation whenever it was at all feasible. The sightings were noted about ten minutes beyond Alynky at 1910 hours when it was already dark. Senator Russell was resting alone in his compartment with the lights out when he noted a small greenish-yellow glowing ball rising quite rapidly. He informed the other members of the party who were occupying the other compartment and a few minutes later they too observed another object.
3. Senator Russell never saw the form of the object only the luminescent ball. Mr. Efron saw only two lights resembling eyes. Colonel Hathaway saw a shadowy object with a single light in the middle at the top and a rotating light or lights similar to exhausts at the base. Senator Russell had the impression that the object could have been as small as a rocket although there were no objects available to produce a satisfactory scale and no trail was left by the rising ball. Mr. Gros and Colonel Hathaway considered the size of the object to be comparable to that of a U. S. jet fighter. However, Colonel Hathaway believes that the object did not resemble any aircraft, rocket or missile that he had ever seen. All observers agree on the impression that the object was rotating or whirling during its rise along its initial steep trajectory. Neither Senator Russell nor Mr. Gros noted any change in this trajectory, but Colonel Hathaway and Mr. Efron stated that the object altered its pattern to horizontal flight quite sharply. Neither Senator Russell, Colonel Hathaway nor Mr. Efron saw any objects on the ground with the exception of the search light, but Mr. Gros reported the presence of a triangular object with three lights which appeared to be ejected from a launching site.
4. Based on the interview of Mr. the only testimony which would support the existence of flying saucers or radically unconventional aircraft is that of Colonel Bethauny. All other
This material contains information affecting the national defense of the United States within the meaning of the Espionage laws, Title 18, USC, Secs. 793 and 794, the transmission or revelation of which in any manner to an unauthorized person is prohibited by law.
T.S. 115h85, Series A
Copy 6 of 10
5.419.
62-83894-361
SUBJECT: Sightings of Flying Saucers or Unconventional Aircraft
observations can probably be explained as steep climbing aircraft or missiles. Further discussions will probably be required before the matter can be completely resolved. In the meantime, however, the evidence does not appear sufficiently firm to warrant the conclusion that the Soviets have developed and have in operation a radically new type of aircraft.
HERBERT SCOVILLE, JR.
Assistant Director
Scientific Intelligence

Distribution
All IAC Members
1 - Dept. of Army
1 - Dept. of Navy
1 - Dept. of Air Force
1 - Dept. of State
1 - AEC
1 - FBI
1 - JCS
1 - OCI
1 - ORR
1 - DCI
T. S. 115485, Series A
Copy 6 of 10

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

27 October 1955
SUBJECT: Interview with Senator Richard B. Russell
1. On 27 October, Dr. Francis Clauser, O/SI consultant, and I interviewed Senator Russell relative to an observation of unconventional or saucer-like aircraft during his visit to Russia. The following is a statement of his observations with my comments. Dr. Clauser will submit separately his views on Senator Russell's statements but I believe he is in general agreement with the views stated herein.
2. The party was travelling between Baku and Tiflis on a train at the specific request of Senator Russell who made every attempt to journey by train when possible. (This tends to refute the theory that the train trip was arranged in order to stage the operation for Senator Russell's benefit.) About an hour and one-half out of Baku the subject, who was not feeling well, was resting in his compartment with the lights turned out while the remainder of the party was in the next compartment with the lights on. He suddenly noticed a greenish-yellow ball rising rapidly. He rushed into the next compartment stating that he had seen what he thought was a flying saucer. They turned out the lights and looked out the window but saw nothing and the rest of the party was initially skeptical. However, suddenly a second ball was noticed rising rapidly and then the other members of the party were convinced. The second object was initially seen at a minimum altitude of 700 to 800 feet, while the first object was initially viewed at an even higher altitude. Nothing was seen on the ground with the exception of a search light which was about one-half to one mile away and appeared to be aimed at a very low trajectory almost at the train. The subject did not on either occasion see the form of the object, only this glowing ball. No firm estimate could be made of the size or distance of the ball because there were no reference objects. However, the subject had the impression that the object could have been as small as a rocket although no trail was left as it rose. The object gave the impression of whirling and appeared to follow a single trajectory with no break in its flight pattern. The subject did not see any lights, only the yellowish glow (this is contrary to statements of other observers). The search light did not appear to be following the object. About five to ten minutes after the sightings and after the subject had returned to his own compartment, the guard came in and pulled down the
This material contains information affecting the national defense of the United States within the meaning of the espionage laws, Title 10, USC, Secs. 793 and 794; the transmission or revelation of which in any manner to an unauthorized person is prohibited by law.
T. S. 115482, Series A
Copy 4 of 10
5-8/9
ENCLOSURE
LOSURE
42-83874-3613
SUBJECT: Interview with Senator Richard B. Russell
shades. No unusual attitude on the part of the guard was noted but it was dark. (This is in direct contradiction with the original dispatch and the statement of Mr. Gros.) Senator Russell was not present when the dispatch was prepared and sent from Prague, and as a consequence did not have a chance to verify the contents.
3. During his trip, the Senator also made a motor trip between Moscow and Borodino. During this ride, he observed six or eight caserns with military personnel. At one point, only 150 yards from the road he noted a radar on top of a mound with a big egg beater object about 20 feet away. He thought he saw a similar installation further from the road on another occasion. One of the caserns was about a mile away on the other side of the road. There was considerable evidence of construction although none that was obviously new. He believed that the radar that was positively identified was about 40 miles from Moscow (if a map had been available, this perhaps could have been pinned down more closely). The Russians were extremely reluctant to allow Senator Russell to make this trip and at one point, it was actually cancelled when Colonel Taylor of the Embassy requested permission to go along. However, Senator Russell stated that he would publicly denounce the Russian program of free travel as being a farce unless he was allowed to make this trip. The permission was then granted. Colonel Hathaway and Mr. Efron were also along with the Senator on this trip.
4. The testimony of Senator Russell does not in my opinion support the theory that the Russians have developed saucer-like or unconventional aircraft. It is quite possible that the objects seen were the exhausts of normal jet aircraft in a steep climb. The fact that none were seen on the ground might indicate that the aircraft were in a dive followed by a sharp pull-up in such a way that nothing was seen until the exhausts were visible to the observers on the train. However, it is possible that the aircraft were indeed of the short or almost vertical take-off variety.
HERBERT SCOVILLE, JR.
Assistant Director

DISTRIBUTION
Scientific Intelligence
ALL IAC MEMBERS
1 - Dept. of Army 1 - Dept. of Navy 1 - Dept. of Air Force
1 - FDI
1 - JCB
1 - ABC
1 - Dept. of State 1 - ORR/CIA
1 - OCI/CIA
1 - DOI/CIA
T. S. 115482, Series A
Copy 4 of 10

TOP SECRET
RECEIVED FROM
NOV1 11955
<signature>
CIA
SJP
D. E. Todd
Box 4732
MEMORANDUM FOR THE DIRECTOR
SUBJECT: Interview with Senator Edward M. Russell
Flying Saucers
The following is a report of an interview with Senator Richard Russell on 27 October 1955 by Jr. Francis Clauser, O/SI assistant.
"He was riding on the train from Salina to Tiflis with 3 others (a translator, a military aide and a Pacific Coast business man). The Senator had a cold, was feeling tired, and lay down in one of the two compartments. The others were in the second compartment. The Senator had the lights out. He noticed what appeared to be a yellow spot on the window. Looking closer he saw it was outside and seemed to be a greenish yellow ball which was ascending rapidly. After it disappeared, he went in to tell the others. While he was discussing it with them, a second object appeared and they all watched it. When the second object was first sighted, the compartment lights were on, but were then switched off. It was after dark and the Senator was unable to see any outline or details of either object other than the greenish yellow light which appeared to be round. He could see no rocket trail nor smoke. He had the uncertain impression that the object was gently whirling or 'tumbling upward'. The trajectory was upward at a steep angle (not vertical) which he described as the way a Fourth of July rocket goes off a highly inclined track. In both cases, the objects were first seen at a distance which he estimated was 600 to 800 feet above the earth. However, he emphasized he had no good way of telling how far away the objects were. The objects kept on going up without a break in their course. They did not level off. He seemed uncertain as to how they finally disappeared. At no time did he hear any noise above the train noise.
Flying Saucers
"There was a searchlight visible such as we used in World War II to spot planes. It was turned on but was not
pointed at the objects and did not attempt to follow them.
In the discussion with the others afterward they claimed
to have seen lights on the objects and to have been able to
make out some details. The Senator remarked that their eyes
were better than his for he could see only the round yellow
light. The others said the objects went over the train.
This material contains information a
national, defense of the United States
meaning of the espionage laws, Title 18,
793 and 794, the transmission or re
which in any manner to an unauthorized
prohibited by law.
62-83894-362
NOT RECORDED
S. A. 11599
Copy 16 of 18
prohibited by law.
EX-126
Rollins new
memorandum
5-AR
SUBJECT: Interview with Senator Richard B. Russell
"The Senator stated that after he was back in his compartment, lying down, the porter pulled down the shades. This was at least 10 minutes later and was not unusual. The Senator stated that he preferred to ride the train, taking it whenever possible. There was nothing unusual about him using the train on this trip. He did not feel the Russians were trying to conceal anything from him in this region. He did not see anything to indicate the presence of a big airforce base in this region. Elsewhere, he passed several airplanes and no attempt was made to conceal them from him.
"The Senator has never seen a jet airplane take off at night. If these objects were jet airplanes, they climbed surprisingly rapidly.
In addition to the foregoing, Senator Russell described the following interesting experience. A Russian major-general had invited him to go to a museum at Borodino, about 60 miles west of Moscow. An American officer named Taylor was anxious to make this trip and requested permission of the Russians to accompany the Senator, his translator and his military aide. Thereupon, the Russians called the whole thing off. The Senator told the Russians he had nothing to do with Taylor's request and threatened to pack his bags and denounce their invitation as a fraud. Permission was given for them to go without Taylor.
"On the way, they went through an area which he immediately took to be the Russian equivalent of Nike sites. It was about 40 miles from Moscow. At one place, they saw two installations which he was sure were radars. They were about 6 or 8 feet across. One he described as looking like an egg beater. About 2 or 3 miles away he saw a number of casernes which he was sure were guided missile installations. Troops, barbed wire, etc. were all around this area. They passed two military shrines. Quite a number of roads had been built in the region."
HENRY SCOVILLE, JR.
Assistant Director
Scientific Intelligence
DISTRIBUTION
1 - DOD
1 - Dept. of State
1 - Dept. of Army
1 - Air
Copy/
Dept. of Navy
Dept. of Air Force
C'D MAIL ROOM
FBI
- FR 71 5 59 PM '56
CITY OF
WORCESTER
MASSACHUSETTS
JULY 1960
WASHINGTOM
RECEIVED-DIRECTOR
FBI
Feb 21 4 00 PM '56
Feb 23 1946 PM '56
REC'D ESPIONAGE
FBI
U S DEPT OF JUSTICE
This image is not a chart. It is a close-up of a yellowed piece of paper with handwritten and stamped text.

Key information:
*   **RECORDED - 40**
*   **INDEXED - 40**
*   **EX - 121**
February 21, 1956
62-83894-363
Mr. Richard E. Guertin
196 College Street
Springfield 9, Massachusetts
1956.
Dear Richard:
Your letter dated February 12, 1956, has been received, and I sincerely appreciate the interest prompting you to write.
I wish to advise that no matter such as you described was ever reported to the FBI.
Sincerely yours,
J. Edgar Hoover
John Edgar Hoover
Director
CEM: jfm: lmh lmh
(3)
FBI RECEIVED READING ROOM
US DE

ISTICE
TB 21 3 48 PM 56
n 2 DEbL Ue npliet
t 8 i
BEC.D E2biONVCE
bED 53 | me bw,24
Signature resembling "Kru"
- Tolson: 
Boardman: 
Nichols: 
Belmont: 
Harbo: 
Mohr: 
Parsons: 
Rosen: 
Tamm: 
Sizoo: 
Winterrowd: 
Tele. Room: 
Holloman: 
Gandy:
A.R
The image is a rubber stamp impression on paper.
Key information:
- "COMM - FBI"
- "FEB 21 1956"
- "MAILED 31"
FEB 28 1956 30
MR. BEANIGAN
This image is not a chart. It contains handwritten text and stamped text on a yellowed background. The handwritten text appears to be a signature or a name. The stamped text is partially obscured and difficult to read clearly, but some discernible characters suggest it might be dates or identifiers. The text "MR. BRANIGAN" is provided as surrounding context, suggesting the image may relate to this individual.
MI the
VooH
oh du man and years toy dad onl
of the matwolfo odt no on meditating fuos now add enoga
e I be badakit et oman
nterad loods a Lacindoet de Jhabuta me bas ga
adjeendoe, bra
most common disease of the thyroid gland, which is also the most common endocrine disorder
demi-avril I robin wood a mi
bocal" yo getting "Becquerel
To combine my sees you
. #141466 Over B-Dry and Brownie's
RECID BELMONT
FBI - JUSTICE
FEB 23 12 50 PM '56
0m thobnost bevisoo or rebre y roda end p mot en boa tue or from ow to rod end effor paar dotal at Jaffengoj, Belognola of Jos nedd aurololgere oe soontos bem datriy nomidt onde eved ad becometre at row.... and bedoption of bes Como at no lo saw taw do ba o rodeabasoval da eripe to rood old goles ambapo egelaunay end you e oot to end of migdies don bbh noisive to yo dan tol modt brit o old even saw ... 9 a bien
I'm a little bit of a nerd, and I'm proud of it. I like to think I'm pretty smart, and I like to learn new things. I'm not the biggest fan of sports, but I do enjoy watching them sometimes. I'm a big fan of movies and TV shows, and I like to read books in my free time. I'm not the most social person, but I do enjoy spending time with my friends and family. I'm a little bit of a homebody, but I do enjoy going out and exploring new places. I'm not the most adventurous person, but I do enjoy trying new things. I'm a little bit of a perfectionist, but I know that I'm not perfect. I'm a little bit of a workaholic, but I know that I need to take breaks and enjoy life. I'm a little bit of a control freak, but I know that I need to let go sometimes. I'm a little bit of a pessimist, but I know that I need to look on the bright side. I'm a little bit of a worrier, but I know that I need to relax and enjoy life. I'm a little bit of a dreamer, but I know that I need to be realistic. I'm a little bit of a romantic, but I know that I need to be practical. I'm a little bit of a hopeless romantic, but I know that I need to be realistic. I'm a little bit of a fairy tale princess, but I know that I need to be strong and independent. I'm a little bit of a princess, but I know that I need to be a queen. I'm a little bit of a queen, but I know that I need to be a ruler. I'm a little bit of a ruler, but I know that I need to be a leader. I'm a little bit of a leader, but I know that I need to be a mentor. I'm a little bit of a mentor, but I know that I need to be a friend. I'm a little bit of a friend, but I know that I need to be a family member. I'm a little bit of a family member, but I know that I need to be a person. I'm a little bit of a person, but I know that I need to be a human being. I'm a little bit of a human being, but I know that I need to be a good person. I'm a little bit of a
BULLETIN 4
I 8
GSA
Feb 14 10 PM 5
MR. JONES
Your's truly
PM 56 12 29 68
FEB 21 4:00 PM, 56
RECEIVED-DIRECTOR
FBI
Sunday February 12, 1956.
Springfield 9, Massachusetts.
Mr. J. Edgar Hoover,
Federal Bureau of Investigation,
Washington, D.C.
Flying Spades
Dear Mr. Hoover:-
I know that you are a very busy man but do you suppose that you could enlighten me on the following subject.
My name is Richard E. Guertin and I am 15 years of age and am a student at Technical High School here in Springfield,Massachusetts.
Recently I became very interested in one of the most amazing dramas of our time, the phenomena of the flying saucers. In a book which I have just read, entitled "flying saucers uncensored" written by Harold T. Wilkins,the author tells of many cases and sightings of flying saucers which correspondents around the world have sent him. One story which he received from a correspondent in California, tells the story of two men who supposedly came from Venus and went to a Los Angeles journalist in March 1953. These men did strange things which made someone so suspicious that he supposedly contacted the F.B.I., which is supposed to have sent an investigator to find out what was going on,but in some strange way the Venusians by using telepathic power or some strange faculty of prevision did not return to the office again. It was said that the F.B.I. was never able to find them for questioning.
I wonder if this story is true, and if you were really notified. I know of you were notified you couldn't tell me anyting about the incident, but I am very curious. Could you possibly tell me if you were notified and if the story is true.
I would appreciate hearing from you.
Yours truly,
M
I
Richard E. Gwertin
ack 2/21/56
RECORDED - 40
62-83894-362
EX.-121
8 FEB 24 1956
Richard Guertin
196 College Street
Springfield 9, Massachusetts.
CH. CIR. OFF
F. B. I.
S. DEPT. OF JUSTICE
APR 26 I 26 PM '56
Moosburg
4-23
RECEIVED - BOARDMA
APR 17 5 07 PM 56
RECEIVED - BOARDMA
APR 16 9:30 AM '56
for
REG'D BELMONT
FBI - JUSTICE

APR 13 7 23 PM '56
RECEIVED - MOHR
FBI
PM 2:04
APR 26
RECD ESPIONAGE
U. S. DEPT. OF JUSTICE
APR 23 107 PM 56
APR 8 4 1988

STANDARD FORM NO. 64

Office Memorandum
UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

TO : L. V. Boardman <signature>
4-17-56
FROM : A. H. Belmont <signature>

SUBJECT : SYLVIA L. RICHARDS
GS-5, Name Check Unit
EOD 4-14-47
DATE: April 13, 1956
Tolson: <empty>
Boardman: <empty>
Nichols: <empty>
Belmont: <empty>
Harbo: <empty>
Mohr: <empty>
Parsons: <empty>
Rosen: <empty>
Tamm: <empty>
Sizoo: <empty>
Winterrowd: <empty>
Tele. Room: <empty>
Holloman: <empty>
Gandy: <empty>
On April 9, 1956, Miss Richards was interviewed concerning her sighting of an unusual object about dawn April 6, 1956, while driving on Route 1 near Henderson, North Carolina, with her fiance, Joseph L. Morris, Jr., an employee of the National Security Agency. She was interviewed for additional details in this matter on April 12, 1956, by Supervisor Mossburg.
Miss Richards reviewed memorandum dated April 10, 1956, from W. G. Eames to Mr. Nichols prior to being questioned for any other details which might be of assistance to the Air Force in this matter. She advised she had seen the object for only a few seconds, that it was still dark when she observed it, although it was near daylight on April 6, 1956. She stated when daylight came she observed the sky to be cloudy and it started raining approximately 30 minutes after she had observed the object. She recalled the object had approached their car on the driver's side from straight ahead at a height which she thought to be less than 25 feet. She was unable to estimate the speed of the object. She described it as being oval shaped, being very bright and having a light blue color. It made no sound that she could hear. She advised her fiance would be able to state exactly where they had observed the object in North Carolina, inasmuch as he was familiar with that area. She was unable to recall any additional pertinent information.
ACTION:
There is enclosed a letter to the Office of Special
Investigations in this matter. EX-122
<signature>

<signature>

Enclosure
EHM:ss
(5)

CC:

5 2 APR 26 1956

detached

LBNichols
LVBoardman
AHBelmont
EHMossburg

<signature>

RECORDED-37

INDEXED - 37

101 Cornell
4-4-56

62-83894 - 367

20 APR 20 1956

THREE

ESP DEC

PERS. FILES

<signature>

STANDARD FORM NO. 64

Office Memorandum

20
TO : MR. NICHOLS <signature>
FROM : W. G. EAMES <signature>
DATE: 4-10-56
SUBJECT: SYLVIA L. RICHARDS
GS-5, Name Check Unit
EOD 4-14-47
[ ] Flying Saucers
<signature>
Tolson: <empty>
Nichols: <empty>
Boardman: <empty>
Belmont: [x]
Mason: <empty>
Mohr: <empty>
Parsons: <empty>
Rosen: <empty>
Tamm: <empty>
Nease: <empty>
Winterrowd: <empty>
Tele. Room: <empty>
Holloman: <empty>
Gandy: <empty>
ather
Miss Richards on 4/9/56 reported the following rather unusual occurrence which is in the "Flying Saucer" category.
6039 22ml Rd N, Cal. Va
On 4/5/56 Miss Richards left Washington by car with her fiance, Joseph L. Morris, Jr. (employee of National Security Agency), to go to Morven, North Carolina to meet the Morris family. Around 5 a.m. on 4/6/56 as dawn was breaking and while driving on Route 1 north of Henderson, North Carolina, the pair was startled by what appeared to be a round low-flying object coming directly towards the car. The object appeared to pass over the car and Miss Richards turned to see it appear to speed up and then veer off out of sight. She and Mr. Morris both felt they had seen something unusual which was difficult to explain and certainly did not appear to be an optical illusion.
Miss Richards stated the object as she saw it appeared round, was spinning and was bright as though containing a series of lights in a zig-zag pattern. The object appeared to be flying very low as it came towards them, moving at great speed and gave off no particular sound. The object, to the best of her belief, was at least as wide as the highway and appeared no more than two to four feet in thickness.
Miss Richards, who is one of our best employees, stated heretofore she has placed little credence in "flying saucer" stories and felt that had she and her boyfriend not seen the same object she would be inclined to think she had imagined something. She appreciates that what they saw may have been some kind of optical illusion; however, at the time the object appeared very real to them.
RECOMMENDATION:

If you agree, it is recommended that this memorandum be
referred to the Liaison Section of the Domestic Intelligence Division
for possible referral to any interested military agencies.

JBE:sak
(3)

62-83894-365
RECORDED-37
20 APR 20 1956
<signature>

1 copy sent 4-24-56
<signature>
<signature>
<signature>

PERS. FILES
Nº 25 - 10
tmeno Bokovo Ito let oce
CC: 
LBN: 
AHB: 
LVBo: 
EHMossburg: 
Liason:
PERS FILES
BY COURIER SERVICE
RECORDED-3
62-83894-365
X-122
Date: April 16, 1956
To: Director of Special Investigations (Original & 1)
The Inspector General
Department of the Air Force
Building Tempo E
4th and Adams Drive, S. W.
Washington, D. C.
From: John Edgar Hoover, Director
Federal Bureau of Investigation
Subject: SIGHTING OF OBJECT RESEMBLING FLYING SAUCER ON APRIL 6, 1956, NEAR HENDERSON, NORTH CAROLINA MISCELLANEOUS - INFORMATION CONCERNING (ESPIONAGE)
On April 6, 1956, Miss Sylvia L. Richards, employee of this Bureau who resides at Two East Mason Alexandria, Virginia, while en route to Morven, North via automobile, with her fiance, Mr. Joseph L. Morris observed an unusual object which appeared to resemble flying saucer.
e a

pril 6,
oute 1
Miss Richards stated at about 5 A.M., on April 6 1956, while it was still dark and while driving on Route 1 north of Henderson, North Carolina, she and Mr. Morris were startled by what appeared to be an oval-shaped, low-flying object coming directly towards their car at a great speed, on the driver's side. Miss Richards stated the object, which was less than 25 feet from the ground, appeared to be spinning, was bright as though containing a series of lights in a zigzagging pattern, was light blue in color and was at least as wide as the highway and no more than from two to four feet in thickness. She stated the object did not change shape, it made no sound and that she observed it for only a few seconds before it appeared to pass over car, accelerate speed and veer off out of sight behind the Miss Richards advised when daylight came she noticed it was cloudy and that approximately 30 minutes after they had sighted the object it began to rain.
e

red
BY COURIER SYD.
0 4 APR 17
COMM - FBI
Tolson: 
Boardman: 
Nichols: 
Belmont: 
Harbo: 
Mohr: 
Parsons: 
Rosen: 
Tamm: 
Sizoo: 
Winterrowd: 
Tele. Room: 
Holloman: 
Gandy:
E.HM.:ss
(8)
Igor 4-24-76
NOTE:
Cover memo Belmont to Boardman 4-13-56
EHM: ss, re: "Sylvia L. Richards, GS-5,
Name Check Unit, EOD 4-14-47."
58 APR 26 1956

Letter to Director of Special Investigations
The Inspector General
Department of the Air Force

Miss Richards advised Mr. Morris, an employee of the National Security Agency who resides at 6039 22nd Road, North Arlington, Virginia, would recall approximately where they sighted the object and he may be able to furnish additional pertinent information.
The above is furnished for your information and no further action is being taken in this matter.
PAGINA 4
treatment. It is a mirror
Tulip
JAST 3/100 60

Todd 000$ od s
pea se poa sanog srd 30 31 are deni
See moobal Sof
of fosse dosto obedirossa

pid en sofer up a solar som quedan dio

stro
MAY 7 1924 AM 56
FBI
RECID-ESPIONAGE
370
INCONS
JUN 25 1956
OUTCONS
JUN 26 1956

STANDARD FORM NO. 64

Office Memorandum • UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

TO :Mr. A. H. Belmont<signature>
FROM :Mr. L. H. Martin<signature>
DATE: May 4, 1956
SUBJECT: FLYING DISC OBSERVED
OXFORD, PENNSYLVANIA
MAY 4, 1956
Tolson: <empty>
Nichols: <empty>
Boardman: <empty>
Belmont: <empty>
Mason: <empty>
Mohr: <empty>
Parsons: <empty>
Rosen: <empty>
Tamm: <empty>
Nease: <empty>
Winterrowd: <empty>
Tele. Room: <empty>
Holloman: <empty>
Gandy: <empty>
Flying Discs
Mr. Thomas Gamble, 102 Center Street, Oxford, Pennsylvania, telephone 1177R, called 11:35 p.m., May 4, 1956, and advised that he had just observed a bright light traveling about 2000 feet in the air toward Baltimore. He last saw it at the place he was calling the Bureau from which was 121 Hodson Street, Oxford, Pennsylvania. He described the object as a solid, bright, yellow light, visible from all directions which he described at one point as being more than twice as bright and twice as big as the headlight of an automobile and another time as twice as bright as the evening star and it was impossible to persuade him to describe it more specifically. He said the object made no noise and that at first it was traveling overhead about as fast as his automobile but then it speeded up and he could not keep up with it although he was traveling at 80 miles per hour. He said that two of his buddies in the barroom where he had first observed the object had also observed it--Cecil Pew and Raymond Dixon. He said he had tried to call Civil Defense headquarters in Baltimore but no one was on duty. Buffiles reflect in in, identifiable with Thomas Gamble.
ACTION:
Captain E. C. Brown, OSI, was advised.
62-83894-366
62-83894-66
cc - Mr. Belmont
Mr. Branigan
RECORDED
INDEXED - 13
16 MAY 8 1956
<signature>
LHM: dd
(3)
JUN 2 6 1956 R/2
58 MAY 14 1956
EX. - 120
2010
of nitro aniline
as concerns auto air bags and child
safety seats, except as otherwise provided
by federal law or as authorized by the
Secretary of Transportation and subject to
RECD - ESPION
FBI
REG-D-ESPIONAGE
H
m
E
9:13 AM 5/5
MAY 14 2:26 PM '56
REC'D BELMONT FBI - JUSTICE
- trompel
-
- MAY 7 1945 AM 56
- FBI
RECD-ESPIONAGE
MAY 7 4:26 PM.56
FBI - JUSTICE
RECD BELMONT

STANDARD FORM NO. 64

Office Memorandum

TO : A. H. Belmont <signature>
FROM : J. H. Glascock <signature>
DATE: 5-5-56
SUBJECT: FLYING DISC OBSERVED
OXFORD, PENNSYLVANIA
May 4, 1956
0
FLYING SAUCERS
Tolson: <empty>
Nichols: <empty>
Boardman: <empty>
Belmont: <empty>
Mason: <empty>
Mohr: <empty>
Parsons: <empty>
Rosen: <empty>
Tamm: <empty>
Nease: <empty>
Winterrowd: <empty>
Tele. Room: <empty>
Holloman: <empty>
Gandy: <empty>
Reference made to memorandum Mr. Martin to Mr. Belmont, May 4, 1956, indicating Thomas Gamble, 102 Center Street, Oxford, Pennsylvania, called at 11:35 p.m., May 4, 1956, concerning a bright light he had observed traveling toward Baltimore at an altitude of approximately 2,000 feet.
Brufgian
This same individual telephonically advised the writer 2:45 p.m. May 5, 1956, his true name is Billy Thomas Gambill and that his true residence is 419 South Broad Street, Kenneth Square, Pennsylvania. Gambill desired to know the results of any investigation conducted as the result of his previous call. It was pointed out to him that the Bureau was not at liberty to disclose such information.
Bureau indices on Billy Thomas Gambill, limited to Pennsylvania, were searched with negative results.
At 3:35 p.m., May 5, 1956, Captain E. C.Brown, OSI, was telephonically advised at his residence.
ACTION: This is for your information.
cc Belmont
Branigan
Glascock
JHG:pat
(4) <signature>
<signature>
RECORDED-75
<signature>
INDEXED-75 62-83894-367
27 MAY 16 1956
<signature>
X-109
<signature>
Lot to CSI
5/11/56 EHM
cc:
(12.01.2010)
The President of the United States of America takes pride in presenting the Air Force Distinguished Service Medal (AFDSM) to
(ΚΩΔΙΚΟΣ) ΕΠΙΔΟΣΕΩΝ - ΙΝΣΤΙΤΟΥΤΟ ΝΟΣΗΜΑΤΩΝ
California no. 3205.41001, 3205.41002, 3205.41003
The original text is not legible.
May 11 10:56 AM 96
RECEIVED - BOARDMAN
BY COIRIER SNC
P. I. V. A. 7
COMM. EDI
RECEIVED-MAIL ROOM
FBI
U. S. DEPT. OF JUSTICE
FEB 2 PM '56
RECD BELMONT JUSTICE
10 36 AM '56
MAY 10 2 19 PM .56
FBI - JUSTICE
RECD BELMONT
T-077347
2009-08-26
21:07:26
(5)
cc: Harrisburg
Liaison
RECORDED-75
62-83894-367
BY COURIER SERVICE
EX-109
Date: May 11, 1956
To: Director of Special Investigations (orig. & 1)
The Inspector General
Department of the Air Force
Building Tempo E
4th and Adams Drive, S. W.
Washington, D. C.
From: John Edgar Hoover, Director
Federal Bureau of Investigation
Subject: FLYING DISC OBSERVED
OXFORD, PENNSYLVANIA
MAY 4, 1956
MISCELLANEOUS - INFORMATION CONCERNING (ESPIONAGE)
At 11:35 p.m., May 4, 1956, an individual who identified himself as Thomas Gamble, 102 Center Street, Oxford, Pennsylvania, advised this Bureau he had just observed at Oxford, Pennsylvania, a bright light traveling about 2,000 feet in the air toward Baltimore, Maryland. He described the object as a solid, bright, yellow light visible from all directions and that it was twice as bright and twice as large as the headlight of an automobile. He also described it as twice as bright as the evening star. He was unable to describe it in more detail. He stated the object made no noise, that at first its speed was the same as the car he was driving but it sped up and although he was driving 80 miles an hour he was unable to keep up with it. He advised that two of his friends, Cecil Pew and Raymond Dixon, also had observed the object.
COMM: ERI
BY COURIER SYC.
42MAY14
MADE 10.26.20
r
so
DELLO DELEGATO
E S I
RECEPITO-DEI-VIR
Tolson: 
Boardman: 
Nichols: 
Belmont: 
Harbo: 
Mohr: 
Parsons: 
Rosen: 
Tamm: 
Sizoo: 50
Winterrowd: 
Tele. Room: 
Holloman: 
Gandy:
At 2:45 p.m., May 5, 1956, the above-referred-to individual advised his true name and address were Billy Thomas Gambill, 419 South Broad Street, Kenneth Square, Pennsylvania.
EHM: jdb
MAY (5) 22 1956
LBT-1021CE
Hegel
Wubs
Letter to Director of Special Investigations
The Inspector General
Department of the Air Force
The above information was telephonically furnished to Captain E. C. Brown of your office by this Bureau on May 4 and May 5, 1956, for whatever action deemed desirable by your office. No action is contemplated in this matter by this Bureau.
8/21/56
I'm, Astoria
(SH45-001) SHOEI 201, 202
SODERSTROM COR
SODAAS SINTXIS
The following is being furnished to the Bureau for use in connection with the event and in no event should be used as an official statement or report.
Captain DAWSON ECKLES of the Air Information service, accompanied by personnel, California, called at this office, San Antonio, Texas. Service Squadron, 4602nd Air Intelligence Service, Inc. LOUIS SAUTER and Sgt. CHARLES M. HOWARD,
for approximately 30 minutes. KITCHEKED in side of ship. He supposedly was on new vibroacous ex
technical advisory for the Columbia Broadcasting System. except that this episode was believed to be aired as HOMERHEADS on SALTER instead of on additional informational
If you want to see the story in the paper, the paper is called "The Daily" and you can find it in the paper section. The story was placed in the paper section of the paper, and you can find it in the paper section. The story was placed in the paper section of the paper, and you can find it in the paper section. The story was placed in the paper section of the paper, and you can find it in the paper section. The story was placed in the paper section of the paper, and you can find it in the paper section. The story was placed in the paper section of the paper, and you can find it in the paper section. The story was placed in the paper section of the paper, and you can find it in the paper section. The story was placed in the paper section of the paper, and you can find it in the paper section. The story was placed in the paper section of the paper, and you can find it in the paper section. The story was placed in the paper section of the paper, and you can find it in the paper section. The story was placed in the paper section of the paper, and you can find it in the paper section. The story was placed in the paper section of the paper, and you can find it in the paper section. The story was placed in the paper section of the paper, and you can find it in the paper section. The story was placed in the paper section of the paper, and you can find it in the paper section. The story was placed in the paper section of the paper, and you can find it in the paper section. The story was placed in the paper section of the paper, and you can find it in the paper section. The story was placed in the paper section of the paper, and you can find it in the paper section. The story was placed in the paper section of the paper, and you can find it in the paper section. The story was placed in the paper section of the paper, and you can find it in the paper section. The story was placed in the paper section of the paper, and you can find it in the paper section. The story was placed in the paper section of the paper, and you can find it in the paper section. The story was placed in the paper section of the paper, and you can find it in the paper section. The story was placed in the paper section of the paper, and you can find it in the paper section
MR JONES
Aug 17 4:05 PM #6
REFERRAL
(14611). S-Business-Andersen
08:28
(8)
6/8

STANDARD FORM NO. 64

Office Memorandum
UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI
DATE: 8/15/56
FROM: SAC, LOS ANGELES (100-24442)
<signature>
SUBJECT: TOD KITTREDGE
FLYING SAUCERS
The following is being furnished to the Bureau for its information in the event an inquiry should be received from the Air Force:
On 8/14/56, Lt. LOUIS SAUTER and Sgt. CHARLES M. HOWARD, 4602nd Air Intelligence Service Squadron, Norton AFB, San Bernardino, California, called at this office, accompanied by Captain DAMON ECKLES of the Air Information Service.
Lt. SAUTER stated he had received a teletype from his headquarters, reflecting that TOD KITTTREDGE, 1430 Hatteras Street, Van Nuys, California, had reported that on 7/16/56, a spherical vehicle had landed in his back yard, splitting a large tree in two. On 7/30/56, this vehicle returned and on this occasion some little green men emerged from the vehicle and invited KITTTREDGE to ride in their ship. He supposedly went up with them for approximately 20 minutes.
Lt. SAUTER stated he had no additional information except that KITTEDGE was believed to be employed in some minor technical capacity for the Columbia Broadcasting System.
Captain ECKLES stated he recalled that the incident reported by KITTREDGE was presented on a CBS television newscast about the time it occurred, and that during the telecast, the split tree was shown, and an interview was had with KITTREDGE. According to Captin ECKLES, the tenor of the comments by the television announcer was that he placed little credence in the story, but was presenting it for what it was worth.
Lt. SAUTER stated that he believes the incident reported by KITTREDGE to be utterly ridiculous, but, in accordance with instructions from his headquarters, he must make some inquiry concerning KITTREDGE in such a manner as not to result in any publicity indicating an Air Force interest. He inquired if the FBI would conduct investi-
pd
2-Bureau (Air Mail)
62-83894-368
1-Los Angeles
furs
ESB:so
(3)
AUG RECORDED - 83
INDEXED - 83
23 AUG 22 1956
DIRECTOR, FBI
8/15/56
RE: TOD KITTREDGE
FLYING SAUCER
gation to obtain information concerning the background of
KITTREDGE, and was advised that no such investigation would be
conducted by this office in the absence of instructions from
the Bureau.
No record of KITTREDGE is reflected in the indices of the Los Angeles Office and SAUTER was so advised.
No action by this office is contemplated.
O'Connor/1906
9/19/2015
MR. JONES
SEP 10 11:34 AM '50
RECEIVED
FBI
U S DEPT OF JUSTICE
SEP 10 11 16 AM '56
RECEIVED
REG
SEP 11 12:53 PM '56
INTERNAL SECURITY SEC
FBI
REC'D BELMONT
FBI - JUSTICE
SEP 11 11 39 AM '56
-0)
Полта
GOLUB
GOVERNMENT OF INDIA
MINISTRY OF HEALTH AND FAMILY WELFARE
CENTRAL BUREAU OF HEALTH INVESTIGATION
NEW DELHI
BUREAU OF RESEARCH AND ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
U.S. DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE
OFFICE INTERIOR

STANDARD FORM NO. 64

Office Memorandum

20

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

TO : DIRECTOR, FBI
DATE: 9/7/56
FROM : SAC, ST. LOUIS (62-0)
SUBJECT: THE A.P.R.O. BULLETIN,
1712 Van Court,
Alamogordo, New Mexico
MISCELLANEOUS
On August 31, 1956, HARLAN N. WOLD, 1829a North Market Street, St. Louis, Missouri, employed as an electrician, Department 155, at McDonnell Aircraft Corporation, St. Louis County, Badge No. 55185, appeared at the St. Louis Office to advise that he and a group of fellow workers have subscribed to a publication entitled "The A.P.R.O. Bulletin", which is published at 1712 Van Court, Alamogordo, New Mexico, and which contains articles about flying saucers.
WOLD stated he and a group of fellow workers saw an advertisement concerning the above described publication in a magazine and they subscribed to this publication for one year at a cost of $3.00. WOLD further stated this publication slurred and criticized the U. S. Air Force and officials of the U. S. Air Force and was in his opinion Communist.
A copy of this communication is being forwarded the Albuquerque Office for purposes of information.
2 - Bureau
1 - Albuquerque
1 - St. Louis (62-0)
EXP. PROC.
CSS: nln
(4)
xeroxe 912,156
t
INDEXED-74
62-83894-369
17
11 33 WH.26
EX-11Z
SEP 10 1956
2023 10 11 12 04 26
66 SEP 20 1956.
лаборатория - I
холлоо - I
RECORD-IT
: YEPLOW ON
SEP 19 7:00 PM 56
SEP 20 10:32 AM 56
FBI
RECEIVED-MAIL ROOM
FBI JUSTICE
80282206
- Tolson
Nichols
Bolton
Hinton
Mason
Moff
Pazzone
Rosen
Tanner
Vasquez
Woods
Tylee
Holloman
Cundy
1 - Liaison Section
1 - Mr. O'Connor
62-83894
BY COURIER SERVICE
Date: September 20, 1956
To: Director of Special Investigations
The Inspector General
Department of the Air Force
Building Tempo E
4th and Adams Drive, S.W.
Washington, D. C.
From: John Edgar Hoover, Director
Federal Bureau of Investigation
Subject: THE A.P.R.O. BULLETIN
Flying Saucers
1712 VAN COURT
ALAMOGORDO, NEW MEXICO
MISCELLANEOUS - INFORMATION CONCERNING
On August 31, 1956, Harian N. Wold, 1829a North Market
Street, St. Louis, Missouri, who is employed as an electrician,
Department 155, McDonnell Aircraft Corporation, furnished the
St. Louis Office of this Bureau with information that he and
a group of his fellow workers have subscribed to a publication
captioned "The A.P.R.O. Bulletin," which contains articles about
flying saucers. Wold advised he answered an advertisement in
a magazine and subscribed to this publication for one year, at
a cost of $3.00. Wold further advised that in his opinion, the
publication slurred and criticized the U. S. Air Force and officials
of the U. S. Air Force.
No action is contemplated in this matter by this
Bureau.

NOTE ON YELLOW:
BY COURIER SVC
2 5 SEP 2 0
COMM_FBL
RECORDED-11
62 - 83894 - 370
EX-117
Tolson <empty>
Nichols <empty>
Boardman <empty>
Belmont <empty>
Mason <empty>
Mohr <empty>
Parsons <empty>
Rosen <empty>
Tamm <empty>
Nease <empty>
Winterrowd <empty>
Tele. Room <empty>
Holloman <empty>
Gandy <empty>
COMM - FBI
Bureau files are negative concerning captioned publication
and in view of the fact that it deals with flying saucers and that
the established policy has been to refer matters of this type
to the Air Force, no further action is deemed necessary.
JJO'C:ebm
(5)
60 SEP 26 1956
2021, S2, xii+100
1972
:acuI7 aabM 4697
Your letter of October 6, 1956, was enclosed.
Belgian goldwasser and not any kind of haw
- claim the same about holly they say not for either
The information contained in this form is subject to the provisions of the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (HIPAA) and may not be disclosed without written authorization of the patient. This form is for the use of the Department of Defense, U.S. Government, and is not to be used for any other purpose.
Hokkaido
MAIL ROOM
FBI
12 5 07PM'56
0155113
General
Copy of incoming and exclusive scout pyrograph to
MAILED

OCT 11 1974

CANC
October 12, 1956
RECORDED-31
INDEXED-3
62-83824-371
Miss Esther D. Fillion
12 Hope Street
Stamford, Connecticut
EX-10
Dear Miss Fillion:
Your letter of October 5, 1956, with enclosure, has been received.
I want to thank you for the interest which prompted your writing and for your very kind words concerning my administration of this Bureau.
The information contained in your letter and the enclosure does not fall within the investigative jurisdiction of the FBI, and I am taking the liberty of forwarding a copy of your letter, as well as a copy of the enclosure, to the Director, Office of Special Investigations, The Inspector General, Department of the Air Force, The Pentagon, Washington 25, D. C.
Sincerely yours,
John Edgar Hoover
Director
Jen
Copy of incoming and enclosure sent by form to The Inspector General,
Department of the Air Force.
FJH:jfm 
(3)
Vipendo
Van
son: 
hls: 
rdman: 
mont: 
on: 
r: 
sons: 
en: 
a: 
se: 
errowd: 
e, Room: 
loman:
gel
MAILED
OCT 12 1956
COMM-FBL
om: 
34
VIA ROMEA
MR.JONES
Oct 8 3:40 PM '56
RECEIVED
FBI
U S DEPT OF JUSTICE
12 Hope St.
Stamford, Conn.
October 5, 1956
Mr. J. Edgar Hoover
Director of F.B.I.
Washington, D.C.
Flying Saucers
Dear Mr. Hoover:
Enclosed is a copy of a Lecture sent to me from Detroit. I think it is the most fascinating Research ever made.
In your busy life you may not have encountered it, so I thought I would send you a copy.
Why doesn't the Government come out with the truth about unidentified Flying Objects?  Everybody seems to accept the "Saucers" as a matter of course, and
2 copies typed
10/10/56
J. M.
people are becoming annoyed at the "ostrich stance" our leaders have taken about them.
a number of clergymen feel that the time has come for someone to answer intelligently and sincerely the public's inquiries. They have gone to "The Book" - the Sacred Bible where man can always find the answers to all his needs, doubts, fears - and inquiries!
I have heard many people say that you probably have all the answers but I suppose you have been throttled too!
I'm so glad you refused to accept the invitation to run for president. You would have been a good one -(if you could be let alone)- but sordid party politics would have engulfed you too much. To the Legions of your admirers you stand too high - are too
clean and honest to become so involved.
Thanks to Almighty God there are Character Influenced like you still standing on the same firm ground of our Forefathers.
Each day now a few more chips are knocked off the pillars of Learning, High Morals, decent behavior and honest standards.
Where can it all end? The days are becoming Wearisome and fearful; surely the repercussions are shaking the outer walls of even Our Father's House.
I wonder What the God of our Fathers is going to do about it?
With deepest respect,
Esther D. Fillion
TRU COPY
12 Hope St.
Stamford, Conn.
October 5, 1956
Mr. J. Edgar Hoover
Director of F. B. I.
Washington, D. C.
Dear Mr. Hoover:
Enclosed is a copy of a Lecture sent to me from Detroit. I think it is the most fascinating Research ever made.
In your busy life you may not have encountered it, so I thought I would send you a copy.
Why doesn't the Government come out with the truth about unidentified Flying Objects?
Everybody seems to accept the "Saucers" as a matter of course, and people are becoming annoyed at the "ostrich stance" our Leaders have taken about them.
A number of clergymen feel that the time has come for someone to answer intelligently and sincerely the public's inquiries. They have gone to "The Book"--the Sacred Bible where man can always find the answers to all his needs, doubts, fears--and inquiries!
I have heard many people say that you probably have all the answers--but I suppose you have been throttled too!
I'm so glad you refused to accept the invitation to run for President. You would have been a good one--(if you could be let alone)--but sordid Party politics would have engulfed you too much.
To the Legions of your admirers you stand too High-- are too clean and honest to become so involved.
Thanks to Almighty God there are character Influences like you still standing on the same firm ground of our Forefathers.
Each day now a few more chips are knocked off the pillars of Learning, High morals, decent behavior and honest standards. Where can it all end? The days are becoming wearisome and fearful; surely the repercussions are shaking the outer walls of even Our Father's House.
I wonder what the God of Our Fathers is going to do about it?
7/4
/s/
With deepest respect,
Esther D. Fillion
62-83894-371
ENCLOSURE
A hand-drawn outline of a star with radiating lines.
The image is not a chart. It is a drawing with the text "Whirling Wheels ~ Rev. John Miller STM". The drawing depicts two spinning objects, one resembling a wheel and the other a disc-like object with circular elements, both surrounded by swirling lines suggesting movement. There is also a stylized profile of a face in the upper right corner, possibly representing a cloud or smoke.
The image contains a rough sketch of two circular objects resembling flying saucers, with swirling lines around them. Below these, there is some faint, illegible handwriting.

TYPOGRAPHICAL ERRORS
Pg. 2 - paragraph 3 - line 10 - should read "ought to decide".
Pg. 3 - paragraph 7 - line 13 - should read "into space via".
Pg. 4 - paragraph 4 - line 10 - should read "Paul tells us".

"WHIRLING
WHEELS"

(A Correlation of Flying Saucers and Visitors from other Planets in The Bible)
by: Reverend John Miller, S.T.M.,
Pastor, Luthern Church;
Litchfield, Illinois
" Flying Saucers" have made the headlines off and on for many months now. Much has been written about them. Research has shown that "flying chariots" and strange powers, both of locomotion and destruction, are described in the holy books of various heathen faiths many thousands of years older than our own. "Flying Chariots" have been seen and reported and not believed for many ages. That is nothing new. But what is new is that recently they have been photographed.
Having established the factuality of the "flying saucer", it is now about time that we find a theological confirmation of the whole matter. This is a necessity! If "flying saucers" inhabit outer-space, and if they have some kind of celestial character, they should have some place in the total economy of God. They should have more place in our thinking and planning, and one would expect them to be mentioned in our own holy books, too. We are therefore not surprised, upon investigation, to find "flying" clouds, rolls, chariots, wheels and people, mentioned in the Bible. To realize this, is to make a great many mysterious things in the Bible seem both matter-of-fact and encouraging!
The ancients, it is true, had no adequate words to describe the things they saw in their day which came from outer space. If a thing flew, it was called a "flying" cloud, bird, chariot or angel. We, today, should have progressed far enough scientifically to call objects from outer-space by names which are more appropriate. But the unhappy term "flying saucer" is a term more reminiscent of a tea-party than of the man-world of science. It seems our own nomenclature, or is it our imagination, is very inadequate also. However, the possibility and probability of realizing unheard of sources of power and speeds, and the conquering of space is to us but a matter of time.
To understand our own holy book we must replace outworn mythological terminology of yester-year with the most adequate scientific terminology of today. The heaven of yesterday we call "space" today! It can be nothing else. The angels of yesterday are the "space-men" of today. An angel was an inhabitant of space. They came from other worlds. If there are any inhabitants of outer space, we today would call them "space-men". The "flying" clouds, horses, or chariots of scripture we call "flying saucers" or "space ships". With a clarification of but these three terms, many things now fall into place quite naturally.
Angels or "space-men" have been seen. They've walked on earth. We read way back in the Old Testament, "Two angels (or space-men) came to Sodom in the evening. When Lot saw them he rose to meet them, and bowed himself with his face to the ground". He spoke to them and offered them hospitality. They did him a favor too. They saved his life! For these two space-men subsequently led an attack on Sodom and Gomorrah and destroyed it with "brimstone and fire out of heaven (space)" (Gen. 19).

-2-
Daniel (Dan. 9:21) calls the angel Gabriel, a man. He describes this space-man as coming to him in "swift flight at the time of the evening sacrifice", and he also describes the interview which followed. Numerous incidents are mentioned in scripture of space-men landing on earth and contacting earth-men, usually bringing to them an important message. About three hundred such incidents can be listed! They brought help as well as destruction, these men from outer-space or heaven.
I believe that we should take these observations more matter-of-factly. We are not dealing with mythology here. A literal understanding of these incidents in modern thought-patterns brings astonishing clarity to all. Our religion should become more materialistic in order to conform with scripture, and not vice-versa as our clerics and others have been telling us for so long. We have practically and mistakenly spiritualized religion out of existence, and thus caused the great divorce between science and religion. True science is true religion.
These angels or space-men pilot some sort of vehicle. One of these space-men, described as a "mighty one" (Rev. 10), "came down out of heaven (space) wrapped in a cloud". Let us call symbolical language and oriental imagery by their right names. To be "wrapped in a cloud" means to be surrounded by an object. In other words, this space-man was piloting a space-ship. How else could the observers of that day have described this phenomenon? That "flying" clouds don't refer to real clouds we see from the quotation, "Who are those that fly like a cloud?" (Isa. 60). The following literal description of a supposed flying-cloud ought to decide the matter. "A stormy wind came out of the north, and a great cloud, with brightness round about it, and fire flashing forth continually, and in the midst of the fire, as it were gleaming bronze. And from the midst of it came the likeness of four living creatures (spacemen)" (Ezk. 1).
The space-man mentioned above had a "rainbow over his head", namely vari-colored lights shone from a canopy over his head which shall be described later. Light "like the sun" came from this space-ship, and its "legs", no doubt landing-gear, were "like pillars of fire". The whole earth was lit up by the power of the light given off by this space-ship (Rev. 18:1).
Besides describing these "space-ships" as "flying" clouds, they are also described as a "flying roll" (Zech. 5:1), in other words "saucer" or "cigar" shaped. An approximate size estimated by an observer of that century who had no knowledge of perspective or distance, is included in this description. They are also described as a "flying serpent" (Isa. 14:29 - 30:6), referring no doubt to the long trail of fire left by the space-ship's exhaust.
However, the clearest, most prominent, most detailed, and most appropriate name given these flying-ships or space-ships, and one which we would well adopt as the most scientific is, "WHIRLING WHEELS", as the reporter Ezekiel calls them (Ezk. 1). This reporter now gives the most detailed description of the so-called "flying saucer" in existence today - many details of which have been verified by modern observers and some even caught by camera.
"Now as I looked at the living creatures (space-men) I saw a wheel upon the earth (the space-ship had evidently landed), one for each of the four of them (four space-ships in all). The appearance of the wheels was like the gleaming of a chrysolite (transparent or translucent olive-green). Their construction being as it were a wheel within a wheel, they had spokes and rims (recent observations and pictures have verified this description of an outer rim and an inner wheel, etc.). And when the living creatures (space-men) rose from the earth, the wheels rose, for the spirit of the living creatures was in the wheels".

-3-
The last sentence is extremely interesting. The reporter claims that when the space-men rose the wheels rose with them. That is exactly what a person of an unmechanical age would say. Men can move, but not an object. So they described the men as carrying the ships with them. We, of course would say the opposite, namely that the wheels or space-ships carried the space-men.
The "whirling wheels" are described as "full of eyes", in other words, full of round openings, port-holes, or power outlets, "all around and within". This description again tallies with observations and photographs made recently.
The space-ships are described as "darting to and fro, like the flash of lightning" (Ezk. 1). "When they went they went in any of their four directions without turning as they went. In whatever direction the front wheel (or ship) faced, the others followed without turning as they went". Besides describing their unbelievable maneuverability "without turning", this also seems to claim that they flew in formation, following a leader (also see Ezk. 10:9).
The fuel or power for these space-ships is found in the middle of the space-ship. It is described as "fire between the whirling wheels" (Ezk. 16:6). "In the midst there was something that looked like burning coals of fire, like torches moving to and fro, and the fire was bright, and out of the fire went forth lightning" (Ezk. 1).
And now there follows a detail which is the very acme of veracity. "Over the head of the living creatures (space-men) there was the likeness of a firmament (the protective canopy over a pilot's head) shining like crystal (transparent glass), spread out above their heads" (Ezk. 1). This "glass globe" has also been observed on the "flying saucers" of today and photographed. It also seems that flying orders are given by remote control via radio or wireless. A voice is said to come "from above the firmament (canopy) over their heads". It is also claimed by this biblical reporter that part of these space-ships is collapsible and other parts retractable. The latter is perhaps the central turret which will be described later.
In flight these "whirling wheels" give off music (Rev. 4:8). This phenomenon has been reported in the holy books of other faiths much older than our own. "It's like the sound of many waters, like the thunder of the Almighty, a sound of tumult like the sounds of a host" (Ezk. 1:24 - 3:13). The word "host" is important to keep in mind because it refers no doubt to the great number of these space-ships flying together. The insignia which seems to be on the outer surface of the space-whips are recognizable as a cherub (a humorous or should we say "human" touch), the face of a man, a lion, and an eagle (Ezk. 1). These space-ships are given orders to patrol the earth, "Go and patrol the earth" (Zech. 6).
On the basis of what we have learned, certain events in scripture now are understandable and acceptable. Enoch, it is reported, went to another world without dying (Heb. 11:5), as perhaps Moses did also. Jacob thought he had a vision when he saw "a ladder set up on the earth and beheld angels or space-men, ascending and descending on it" (Gen. 28). The ladder obviously was let down from a space-ship for some purpose or other. Space-men had a particular interest in Jacob it seems, for on a later occasion he wrestled with one of them, the space-man only playing with Jacob until it was time for the space-man to go, whereupon he partially paralyzed Jacob (Gen. 32). It is interesting to note that space-men usually appear around sunset, during the night, or at sunrise. Through some whirl-wind-like action Elijah disappeared into space via a "flying chariot" (II Kings 2:11). Moses

4 cm
and Elijah came to meet Jesus on the Mount of Transfiguration via "a bright cloud". We know what these "clouds" were. The "cloud" disappeared with them again. The poor man in Luke 16, was carried by space-men into another world. Do space-men carry away into heaven or space the "souls" of the dead? A woman in Rev. 12, was given unusual locomotive powers to escape her enemy. These instances can be multiplied hundreds of times !!
Even God's activities now become clearer! God's presence in scripture is described "like birds hovering" (Isa. 31:5). The hovering is a hovering of some flying object. "Clouds" are called His chariot, with them comes the wind, fire and flame (Ps. 104). One reads of "a swift cloud" (Isa. 19:1), in other words a space-ship. Note the following description: "Then the earth reeled and rocked: the foundations also of the mountains trembled and quaked, because He was angry. Smoke went up from His nostrils, and devouring fire from His mouth: glowing coals flamed forth from Him. He bowed the heavens and came down. Thick darkness was under His feet. He rode on a cherub and flew. He came swiftly upon the wings of the wind" (Ps. 18). We have discussed these signs above. They describe a space-ship, although the observer here, in not seeing the pilot, describes the space-ship as though it were a person. Perhaps in this case this space-ship might be God's own private space- ship or the so-called "mother" ship. Why should we deny God the right to make a machine and use it too, if He wants to?
God's presence with Israel in the desert was via a "pillar of cloud" in the day and by night a "pillar of fire"; the fire of course would not be visible in the sky by day (Exo. 13). Out of this cloud God harassed the Egyptians. In Isa. 66, it is reported "for behold the Lord will come in fire and His chariots like the storm-wind with flames of fire". And again, "His chariots are like the whirlwind" (Jer. 4:13). Psalms 68:17, claims that God lived on Mount Sinai for a while with 20,000 chariots. Big "clouds" settled on Mount Sinai with "fire" and "smoke" for forty days. Moses was given the tablets of the law on this mountain, through the intervention of space-men, as Paul tells us. Sinai seems to have been God's headquarters for a certain maneuver at this time. Space-men with their ships always seem to be present when God's people are in danger. Even a difficult passage like "And the 'glory' of the Lord went up from the midst of the city and stood upon the mountain" (Ezk. 11:23), now becomes clear. It means that the ships took off from the middle of the city, the take-off place, and then landed on a mountain.
Neither should we forget that God is called the Lord of "Sabbaoth" in the Bible, which means the Lord of "hosts" or "armies" - real armies, space-armies. This name "the Lord of hosts", is the most used name for God in the Bible. He is the God of war. This title is used hundreds of times together with the complementary phrase "hosts of heaven", or hosts of space. Jacob once saw the whole assembled army. We read, "The angels (space-men) of God met him and when Jacob saw them he said, 'This is God's army'." (Gen. 32). These hosts were at one time an object of worship by earth-men. It seems that God often came down out of heaven or space to earth to fulfill His plans and to carry out certain campaigns.
When the space-ships were stationary and when the central turret was raised, they looked like thrones, and are so-called in scripture. "His throne was fiery flames, its wheels were burning fire, a stream of fire issued and came forth from before Him" (Dan. 7:9). No ordinary thrones these, but space-ships! In Rev. 4, we have a unique description of the "mother" ship and twenty-four others on a landing-field which looked like a "sea of glass-like crystal", and from them all came flashes of lightning, voices and peals of thunder".

-5-
The life of Jesus, now too, becomes clearer when these things are remembered. His powers of levitation, His ability to pass through doors, walk on water, and heal the sick, are the essential attributes of men from outer space. They will also be ours someday when we will be "free like birds" (Ezk. 13:20). At Jesus' birth the celestial army came quite close to earth. A space-man appeared to the shepherds and the "glory" of the Lord, with the usual signs of His presence, shone around them. There was a multitude of the heavenly army with this space-man. And after their cosmic announcement, the music of their space-ships was heard as they again disappeared into space.
Jesus' ascension is described as "a cloud (or space-ship) received Him out of their sight" (Acts 1:9). His coming again is to be in the same manner. "Then will appear the sign of the Son of man in heaven (space) coming on the clouds (space-ships) of heaven (space) with power and great glory" (Matt. 24:30 - Rev. 14). He will come with His whole army and will then take over the destiny of the world. Jesus comes then, conquering and to conquer; a King of kings, and Lord of lords. This time He summons the twelve legions of space-men, which He refused to summon at the time of His betrayal. He will appear on a white "horse" or space-ship, "shooting flames of fire", leading a whole fleet of space-ships, from whose mouths issue sharp swords", no doubt blasts of destructive energy. He signals all the "birds that fly in mid-heaven" (all the sky-ships in space) to the cosmic conflict, with the words, "Come gather.", and the world will be destroyed by God's black fleet described below.
The rumbling space-ships leap on top of the mountains to await the signal for the attack (Joel 2:5). That day will be a day of darkness and gloom and of hydrogen and cobalt clouds. "Like blackness there is spread upon the mountains a great and powerful people, their like has never been from of old nor will be again. Fire devours before them, and behind them a flame burns. The land is like the Garden of Eden before them, but after them a desolate wilderness".
Earth-men who have pleased God in the meantime, will "ascend up into space in a space-ship in the sight of their foes" (Rev. 11). Paul puts it this way, "We will be caught up together with them in the clouds (space-ships) to meet the Lord in the air" (I Thess. 4:17). In this manner a remnant of earth-men will literaly be rescued or saved..... For what?
For the "Father's house in which are many rooms", or as some translators put it, "stopping-places", "resting-stations" or "filling-stations" if you wish, or the way to outer-space and beyond. All the planets and universes in outer space are there for a good and glorious purpose. They are not just dead dust. They are the planets on which these space-men live, and we too will someday live.
This clear understanding of things as they are and as they will be, is for our comfort. We should always remember that God's people are always protected by a circle of space-ships. "We are surrounded by so great a cloud of witnesses", we read in Heb. 12. The whole heavenly host once came out to protect but one man, Elijah (II Kings 6:17). "Behold the mountain was full of horses and chariots of fire". And Elijah was saved or rescued right from under the noses of a whole city full of enemies.
God's word to us knowing all this is: "Fear not, for those who are with us are more than those who are with them!" ... May our prayer be, --
"O, Lord, open our eyes that we may see."
(II Kings 6:17)
THE
END

STANDARD FORM NO. 64

Office Memorandum

UNITED
GOVERNMENT
TO: DIRECTOR, FBI
DATE: 1/11/57
FROM: SAC, RICHMOND (62-779)
SUBJECT: AERIAL PHENOMENON RESEARCH GROUP 5108 FINLAY ST. SEATTLE, WASH.
MISCELLANEOUS INFORMATION CONCERNING
FLYING SAUCERS
Attached are two copies of a letter to the District Commander of OSI at Langley Field, Va., which are being forwarded to the Bureau for information.
2 - Bureau (Encls.2)
1 - Seattle (Encl.1)
1 - Richmond
RET: fec
(4)
2
ENCLOSURE
39
MXI. 1900.
31
62-83894-372
16
RECORDED - 39
6 JAN 14 1957
INDEXED - 39
EX-117
<signature>
<signature> No action
civil <signature>
CRIMINAL REC.
257
6 JAN 23 1957
60,000
Office Memorandum - UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT
DATE: 1/11/57

TO : DIRECTOR , FBI

FROM : SAC , RICHMOND (62-779)
<signature>

SUBJECT: AERIAL PHENOMENON RESEARCH GROUP
MISCELLANEOUS INFORMATION CONCERNING
Attached are two copies of a letter to the Director Comander of OSI at Langley Field, Va., which are being forwarded to the Bureau for Information.
S - Burean (Enola S)
I - Seattle (Enel I)
I - Richmond
RET:tec
(A)
RXT
MR. JONES

EX. 11

JAN 14 5 03 PM '57

INDEXED - 30

JAN 15 8 57 AM '57

RECORDED - 30

RECEIVED
F B I
U S DEPT OF JUSTICE
TMENT OF

United States Department of Justice
Federal Bureau of Investigation
Richmond, Virginia
January 11, 1957
District Commander
21st District
Office of Special Investigations
Langley Air Force Base, Virginia
RE: AERIAL PHENOMENON RESEARCH GROUP
MISCELLANEOUS INFORMATION CONCERNING
Dear Sir:
Mrs. Margaret Blunt, 7606 Sweetbriar Road, Richmond, Virginia, advised this office on January 2, 1957, that she had received a letter from captioned organization requesting she furnish any information she might have relative to her alleged observation of a "flying saucer" a year or so ago near Richmond, Virginia. Mrs. Blunt informed she is employed by the Richmond Quartermaster Depot of the United States Army and it was while on her way to work one morning that she had sighted the object in question. She stated that several other women employees of the Depot were present and subsequently one of these women had told a newspaper reporter about the incident and all their names had appeared in the papers.
Mrs. Blunt advised that she was reluctant to answer the letter as she felt it could be an illegal or subversive group who was trying to obtain information they should not have. She pointed out that she knew nothing about the organization but the correspondence did not reflect the group was connected with the United States Government in any way.
She informed that the letter indicated the group was a national organization whose duty it was to investigate any and all unusual aerial phenomenon. It also reflected that one Bob Gribble was the Executive Director and Jim Ewart was the Director of Investigations. The address for this organization was shown to be 5108 Finlay Street, Seattle, Washington.
District Commander
January 11, 1957
The above data is being furnished for your information, it being noted that the files of this office contain no reference to this organization.
Very truly yours,
W. G. GRAPP
Special Agent in Charge
RECORDED - 54
INDEXED - 54
February 20, 1957
62-83894-373
ELI-XI
Mr. Hagan Parrish
Sheriff of Polk County
Post Office Box 631
Bartow, Florida
My dear Sheriff:
0 Flying SAucers
Your letter dated February 8, 1957, has been received, and I want to thank you for bringing the enclosed material to our attention.
Since the contents of your communication are of primary concern to another governmental agency, I am taking the liberty of forwarding a copy of your letter and a copy of its enclosure to the Director of Special Investigations, The Inspector General, Department of the Air Force, Building Tempo E, Fourth and Adams Drive, Southwest, Washington, D. C.
Sincerely yours,
COMM - FBI
23 FEB 1967
MAILED 30
John Edgar Hoover
Director
Bob CRIBBLE
<signature>
cc - Seattle, with copy of incoming and copy of its enclosure
Re Richmond letter 1-11-57 captioned Aerial Phenomena
Research Group, Miscellaneous Information Concerning."
WASH.
olson: 
ichols: 
Boardman: 
Belmont: 
ason: 
ohr: 
arsons: 
osen: 
amm: 
ease: 
utterowd: 
e. Room: 
man:
NOTE: Bufiles reflect that a citizen in Richmond, Virginia, received a similar letter earlier this year from the Aerial Phenomena Research Group of the same type forwarded by correspondent. OSI at Langley Field, Virginia, made a copy of it available to the Bureau. (62-83894-372) No other pertinent references located. Copies of incoming and its enclosure sent to OSI by form.
bal
HAGAN PARRISH
SHERIFF
SEAL OF THE STATE OF
IN GOD WE TRUST VO
COUNTY OF POLK
STATE OF FLORIDA
BARTOW, FLORIDA
HAMP ROGERS, CHIEF
CRIMINAL DIVISION
RES. WINTER HAVEN, CY 3-0052
PHONES:
OFFICE 3-7011 - JAIL 3-7171
REPLY REF.
R. BRUCE ALBRITTON, CHIEF ADMINISTRATIVE RES. FT. MEADE, AT 4-3955
February 8, 1957.
Federal Bureau of Investigation
Washington, D. C.
Gentlemem:
I am enclosing herewith a bulletin received at this office on February 5, 1957, for your evaluation.
Assuring you of our complete cooperation at all times, I am
Sincerely,
Hagan Parrish
HAGAN PARRISH, SHERIFF
HP: es
Enc.
Zaritostats made
2-15-07
yes
еи
ENCLOSURE
54
nml 20
ack 2-19-59
Per
2019
ENCLO. ATTACHED
F0
62H-25 83894-373
RECORDED - 54
OME2
-
21 FEB 26 1957
2020
Nola
COUNTRY & POLA
Jedinstveni
bevins or nisalind's ativeed qricolone as
RECEIVED
FBI
DEPT OF JUSTICE
FEB 14 8:41 AM 57
VER 09 837 K
62-83894-373
ENCLOSURE
Wtch DC.

Aerial Phenomena Research Group

Seattle, Washington
Headquarters:
5108 Findlay Street
Bob Gribble
Executive Director
Dear Sir:
Several reports of unidentified flying objects seen over cities in your section of the country since on 12-18-56 have recently arrived at our office. We would appreciate names and addresses of witnesses reporting unidentified flying objects or other aerial phenomenon to your office during this period. All names and addresses will be held strictly confidential, to be used only when contacting the witness for information regarding their experience.
We are a national organization whose objectives are to investigate and determine the nature of unidentified flying objects and related phenomena. Any information you can give us pertaining to this matter will be greatly appreciated.
Thanking you in advance, I am
Sincerely yours
<signature>
Director of Investigations: <empty>
FEB 5 1957
POLK COUNTY
FLORIDA
12
11
1
10
2
9
3
8
4
7
5
6
HAGAN PARRISH
Sheriff
{"box_2d": [18, 10, 970, 990], "text_content": "2 autostats made\n2-15-57\nyes"}

STANDARD FORM NO. 64

Office Memorandum • UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Title
DATE: March 15, 1957
TO : Mr. Tolson
Unidentified "Flying Objects"
Tolson <empty>
Great Meadows, New Jersey
Nichols <empty>
FROM : L. B. Nichols
March 12,1957 - John
Boardman <empty>
<signature> <signature>
Belmont <empty>
Mohr <empty>
Stewart Martin, Informant.
Parsons <empty>
Misc - Info Concerning
Rosen <empty>
SUBJECT: JOHN STUART MARTIN
Tamm <empty>
<signature>
GREAT MEADOWS, NEW JERSEY
Trotter <empty>
Nease <empty>
Tele. Room <empty>
INFO.
Holloman <empty>
For record purposes, John Stuart Martin (Great Meadows, Gandy — New Jersey, telephone Mercury 7-2683) telephoned from his home at 12:52 p. m., March 14, 1957, while I was tied up on another matter, and talked with Wick. Martin, age 56, is one of the original founders of "Time" magazine, was employed by Louis de Rochement on our movie, "House on 92nd Street," and he formerly was editor of "March of Time." He married Mary Gilbert, whom he says is known to the Director. He has one arm.
MRS JOHN STUART
Martin said, to make a long story short, that he has run into a situation which has to do with an unidentified flying object observed two days ago in the Great Meadows vicinity. Martin said he had made a formal report in writing to military authorities, as well as to two civilian groups interested in the affair. General Wedemeyer is connected with one of the latter groups. Martin said he is not satisfied that the "intelligence" he supplied to the military is being handled properly, nor does he know to whom he should submit information and in what fashion. He said frankly he wanted an Agent to call upon him so that the Agent could evaluate his information, although he said he well knew "flying saucers," etc., were not within the scope of the FBI's interest nor jurisdiction.
S24eRS
RECEIVED
(The attached news ticker from United Press reflects that in testimony before a House Appropriations Subcommittee, 2-19-57, Dr. Hugh Dryden, Director of the National Advisory Committee for Aeronautics, had flatly stated there is no such thing as a flying saucer. It was said too that the Air Force or some other authority should nail down the unidentified "flying objects" and "say it is pure fiction.")
ACTION TAKEN:

[x] ENCLOSURE

While normally we would simply tell a caller that we have no
jurisdiction and that he should refer such matter to the proper military

cc: Mr. Boardman
cc: Mr. Belmont

RECORDED - 36
INDEXED - 36
62-83894-374

17 MAR 26 1957

REW:af (4)
EX 105
30 APR 1 1957
RECEIVED - NICHOLS
FBI
MAR 21 4 00 PM '57
MAR 18 9 17 AM 57
D - ESPIONAGE
RECEIVED-DIRECTOR
L B I
MAR 15 5:41 PM '57
RECEIVED - BOARDMAN
11
MAR 15 4:52 PM 57
RECEIVED - TOLSON
FEB 1
U.S. DEPT OF JUSTICE
MAR 15 7 24 PM '57

RECU BELMONT
FBI - JUSTICE
FEB 21 6:02 PM 57
FBI - JUSTICE
FECID BELMONT

Nichols to Tolson memo
March 15, 1957
authorities, in this instance, because of Martin's demonstrated friendliness to the Bureau and the Director, his sane and reasonable approach to matters and his apparent concern for the welfare of our country, I instructed Wick to have the Newark Office have an Agent when in the vicinity of Great Meadows simply drop by Mr. Martin's home to see what he has in mind.
ASAC Commons of the Newark Office told Wick he would have an Agent drop by to see Martin and would send a letter to the Bureau covering results.
V

- 2 -
0-20
D
Mr. Tolson: <signature>
Mr. Nichols: <signature>
Mr. Boardman: <signature>
Mr. Belmont: <signature>
Mr. Mohr: <empty>
Mr. Parsons: <empty>
Mr. Rosen: <empty>
Mr. Tamm: <empty>
Mr. Trotter: <empty>
Mr. Nease: <empty>
Tele. Room: <empty>
Mr. Holloman: <empty>
Miss Gandy: <empty>
UP7 3
(FLYING SAUCERS)
THE DIRECTOR OF THE GOVERNMENT'S TOP AIR RESEARCH AGENCY HAS TOLD CONGRESS FLATLY THAT THERE IS NO SUCH THING AS A FLYING SAUCER.
THE ASSURANCE CAME FROM DR. HUGH L. DRYDEN, DIRECTOR OF THE NATIONAL ADVISORY COMMITTEE FOR AERONAUTICS, AT A CLOSED-DOOR HEARING BY A HOUSE APPROPRIATIONS SUBCOMMITTEE.
THE TESTIMONY, TAKEN ON FEB. 19, WAS MADE PUBLIC TODAY.
DRYDEN AND OTHER NACA OFFICIALS INCLUDING GEN. JAMES A. DOOLITTLE, THE AGENCY CHAIRMAN WERE QUESTIONED ABOUT A REPORT PUBLISHED IN GERMANY THAT THE NAZIS DEVELOPED SHORTLY BEFORE THE END OF WORLD WAR II A 138-FOOT SAUCER THAT ROSE TO 40,000 FEET AND FLEW AT A SPEED OF 1,250 MILES AN HOUR.
"THERE IS NO TRUTH IN THAT STATEMENT," DRYDEN SAID. "THIS IS AN ADVERTISEMENT FOR A BOOK..."
REP. ALBERT THOMAS (D-TEX.), SUBCOMMITTEE CHAIRMAN, PRESSING FOR A MORE CONCLUSIVE STATEMENT, ASKED:
*IS THERE NO SUCH THING AS A FLYING SAUCER, AND THE GERMANS DIDN'T HAVE IT IN 1945 AND DON'T HAVE IT YET?*
"THAT IS RIGHT," SAID DRYDEN.
DRYDEN ALSO DENIED A RELATED CLAIM THAT THE NAZIS HAD PERFECTED A BOMBER THAT COULD HIT THE U.S. AND RETURN WITHOUT REFUELING.
"YOU HAVE TO DISTINGUISH HARDWARE FROM IDEAS," DRYDEN EXPLAINED.
3/14--EG1140A
File 5
ENCLOSURE
62-83894-374

WASHINGTON CITY NEWS SERVICE
RECEIVED-DIRECTOR
FBI
MAR 14 11 59 AM '57
RECEIVED - BOARDMA.
MAR 21 4:49 PM '57

0-20
Mr. Tolson: <empty>
Mr. Nichols: <empty>
Mr. Boardman: <signature>
Mr. Belmont: <signature>
Mr. Mohr: <signature>
Mr. Parsons: <signature>
Mr. Rosen: <empty>
Mr. Tamm: <empty>
Mr. Trotter: <empty>
Mr. Nease: <empty>
Tele. Room: <empty>
Mr. Holloman: <empty>
Miss Gandy: <empty>
UP76
ADD 1 FLYING SAUCERS
DOOLITTLE ALSO DISCOUNTED THE PUBLISHED ACCOUNT OF THE SAUCER AND INTERCONTINENTAL BOMBER, WARNING HOWEVER THAT BACKERS OF THE BOOK PROBABLY WOULD USE THE DENIALS "AS ANOTHER LEG UP" TO PUBLICIZE IT.
IN REFERENCE TO FREQUENTLY PUBLISHED "SIGHTINGS" OF WHAT OFFICIALLY ARE CALLED "UNIDENTIFIED FLYING OBJECTS" THOMAS SAID THE AIR FORCE, OR SOME OTHER AUTHORITY, "OUGHT TO, ONCE AND FOR ALL, NAIL IT DOWN AND SAY IT IS PURE FICTION."
HE SAID THE AIR FORCE HAD "HEMMED AND HAWED" ON THE ISSUE, APPARENTLY A REFERENCE TO THE 1955 AIR FORCE REPORT THAT IT HAD INVESTIGATED 5,000 REPORTED SIGHTINGS AND FOUND "NO EVIDENCE" OF THE EXISTENCE OF SAUCERS.
THIS WASN'T QUITE THE SAME THING AS SAYING THE SAUCERS DID NOT EXIST, AS DRYDEN NOW HAS ASSERTED.
3/14--EG1145A
2
2017
62-83894-374
ENCLOSURE

WASHINGTON CITY NEWS SERVICE
REMOVAL MONT
FBI - JUSTICE
MAR 25 6 17 PM '57
RECEIVED-DIRECTOR
F B I
MAR 14 11:50 AM '57
Mar 25 5:34 PM 57
RECEIVED - BOARDMA

STANDARD FORM NO. 64

Office Memorandum
UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

TO : Director, FBI (62-83894)
DATE: 4/18/57
FROM : SAC, Norfolk
SUBJECT: CIVILIAN RESEARCH SAUCERS
INTERPLANETARY FLYING OBJECTS
LEONARD H. STRINGFIELD, Director,
7017 Britton Ave., Cincinnati 27, Ohio
MISCELLANEOUS - INFORMATION CONCERNING
Re Cincinnati letter to Bureau 4/12/57, copies for Norfolk, requesting Norfolk check indices regarding EVA REICH, M.D. (Mrs. WILLIAM S. MOISE), Route 1, P. O. Box 721, Alexandria, Va.
Inasmuch as Alexandria, Va., is covered by the Richmond Office, both copies of relet designated for Norfolk, as well as enclosure, are being forwarded to Richmond for appropriate handling. Norfolk indices negative re Dr. REICH.
2 - Bureau
1 - Cincinnati (100-11671) (Info.)
2 - Richmond (3 Encl.) (REGISTERED MAIL)
1 - Norfolk
JEM:SNB
(6)
el
62-83894-2k 375
RECORDED-38
10 APR 19957
HECTOR
INDEXED - 3月
ORDINE
EX. - 117
67 APR 30 1957
No.204E8
40 .on MΛOЯ-дΛдΛHATA
UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT
Office Memorandum
TO: Director, FBI (62-83894)
DATE: 4/18/57
FROM: SAC, Norfolk
SUBJECT: CIVILIAN RESEARCH,
INTERPLANETARY FLYING OBJECTS
LEONARD H. STRINGFIELD, Director,
7017 Britton Ave., Cincinnati 27, Ohio
MISCELLANEOUS - INFORMATION CONCERNING
Re: Cincinnati Letter to Bureau #12/57, copies to Norfolk, regarding EVA RETCH, M.D. (Mrs. WILLIAM S. MOISE)
Route I, P. O. Box 121, Alexandria, Va.
indices negative re Dr. REICH.
are being forwarded to Richmond for appropriate handling. Norfolk
both copies of letter designated for Norfolk, as well as enclosure,
Inasmuch as Alexandria, Va., is covered by the Richmond Office,
I - Norfolk
S - Richmond
S - Goochland
I - Goochland
S - Breckin
BOLSA DE VALORES DE MEXICO
APR 19 2007 5:16
APR 19 4:54 PM 2017
APRIL
64 APR 20 JEST

STA FORM NO. 64

Office Memorandum • UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

TO : Director, FBI (62-83894)
DATE: 4/12/57
<signature>
FROM : SAC, Cincinnati (100-11671)
SUBJECT:
CIVILIAN RESEARCH,
INTERPLANETARY FLYING OBJ
LEONARD H. STRINGFIELD, D
7017 Britton Avenue
Cincinnati 27, Ohio
MISCELLANEOUS - INFORMATI
irector,
OFLYING SAUCERS
ON CONCERNING
On March 25, 1957, LEONARD H. STRINGFIELD appeared at the Cincinnati Office for the purpose of calling attention to a letter dated March 19, 1957, which he had received from EVA REICH, M.D. (Mrs. WILLIAM S. MOISE, Route 1, P.O. Box 721, Alexandria, Virginia, telephone South 5-7081).
For the information of the Bureau and the Norfolk Office, Mr. STRINGFIELD is presently the Advertising Manager for Dubois Company, Inc., 1120 W. Front Street, Cincinnati, Ohio. According to STRINGFIELD, he has been interested in flying discs or objects for a number of years and has cooperated with the United States Air Force to the extent of furnishing the Air Force with any information on flying objects coming to his attention. Mr. STRINGFIELD was also the publisher of a paper called the "Orbit", which carried the following heading: "The official publication of Civilian Research, Interplanetary Flying Objects". The "Orbit" was a monthly publication which carried information and intelligence research by STRINGFIELD on flying objects. According to STRINGFIELD the "Orbit" had a limited circulation.
In connection with Dr. REICH's letter, STRINGFIELD stated that prior to the receipt of the letter he received a long distance telephone call from Dr. REICH on March 12, 1957. This call was received by him in the early morning prior to his departure for work. He related that Dr. REICH was a subscriber to the "Orbit" and that during the phone conversationshe made reference to some of his reports which he had published in the "Orbit" and for the most part spoke on matters that were "over his head" and things that he did not understand. According to STRINGFIELD, she concluded the conversation by stating she would write him a letter, which letter was the reason for his call on the FBI. 3-829-94-8
ENCLO. ATTACH1
im a letter, which
I. 62-83894-376
2 - Bureau (62-83894)(RM) (Enclosures - 2)
6 APR 17 1957
2 - Norfolk (RM)(Enclosure - 1)
2 - Cincinnati (100-11671)
RECORDED - 83
(1 - 65-1994)
W
AJM: JL
(6)
ENCLOSURE
P.E. 
PROC.
18
The Chicago Tribune
The text is too blurry to read accurately.
U.S. DEPT OF JUSTICE
FSI
REF:
APR 17 4:24 PM 957
MR.JONES
APR 17 3:39 PM 57
RECEIVED-TOLESON
F 8 I
Apr 23 1:42 PM '57

CI. 100-11671
Mr. STRINGFIELD furnished the letter to this office but desired the same be returned to him and it should be noted that Dr. REICH speaks of STRINGFIELD testifying before some Congressional committee in connection with flying saucers and his publication. She further speaks of events designated "OROP Desert Ea" which STRINGFIELD knows nothing about.
In the first paragraph of page 2 in speaking of the above event, she makes reference that there is evidence for espionage against this work and later adds that the FBI so far has declined to investigate as the subject is "not within their jurisdiction". It is further noted that she also speaks of the evidence of the "orgone energy motor", which STRINGFIELD has no knowledge of. Dr. REICH mentions a number of people as being former members on the staff of the expedition "OROP Desert Ea".
For the information of the Bureau and Norfolk, persons mentioned by Dr. REICH in her letter have been checked through the Cincinnati indices with negative results.
There are attached hereto two autostatic copies of Dr. REICH's letter to Mr. STRINGFIELD dated March 19, 1957, for the Bureau, and one copy for the Norfolk Office. The Norfolk Office is requested to check their indices on Dr. REICH and furnish the Bureau with any identifiable data concerning her and persons mentioned in her letter of March 19, 1957. This office is returning the original to Mr. STRINGFIELD and is not maintaining a copy of the same in this office.

-2-
SAC, Cincinnati (100-11671)
April 23, 1957
Director, FBI (62-83894)
RECORDED - 83 6283894-376
CIVILIAN RESEARCH
LEONARD H. STRINGFIELD, DIRECTOR
7017 BRITTON AVENUE
CINCINNATI 27, OHIO
MISCELLANEOUS - INFORMATION CONCERNING
Reurlet April 12, 1957, captioned as above.
Bufiles reflect that Eva Reich is the daughter of Dr. Wilhelm Reich, M.D., Director of the Wilhelm Reich Institute, aka., The Orgone Institute Research Laboratories, Inc., at Rangeley, Maine. Dr. Wilhelm Reich, following extensive investigation by the Food and Drug Administration, United States Department of Health, Education and Welfare, in May, 1956, was found guilty of contempt of court following the issuance of an injunction barring interstate shipment of devices, literature and promotional material regarding treatments by Reich of cancer and other serious diseases, said devices having been described as worthless by the Food and Drug Administration. Following unsuccessful appeal efforts, Reich was imprisoned on March 12, 1957. Since early 1957, as well as previous thereto, Wilhelm Reich, Eva Reich, William Moise and other members of Reich's staff have directed voluminous correspondence to the Bureau, to various Bureau divisions, and other United States Government agencies and officials. None of the material reviewed at the Bureau has indicated any violations within the investigative jurisdiction of this Bureau.
It is noted that Dr. Eva Reich (Mrs. William S. Moise) was recently interviewed by Special Agents of the Richmond Office assigned to the Alexandria, Virginia, Resident Agency at which time she furnished information in essence comparable with that set forth in her letter to Stringfield. She also indicated at that time that she had addressed similar information to the office of United States Senator Margaret Chase Smith and had contacted Assistant United States Attorney General William Tompkins. At that time Eva Reich, a naturalized citizen of the United States, also made certain derogatory comments relating to justice
Tolson: <empty>
Nichols: <empty>
Boardman: <empty>
Belmont: <empty>
Mohr: <empty>
Parsons: <empty>
Rosen: <empty>
Tamm: <empty>
Trotter: <empty>
Nease: <empty>
Tele. Room: <empty>
Holloman: <empty>
Gandy: <empty>
cc: Richmond, with enclosure (SEND BY REGISTERED MAIL)
cc: Norfolk (SEND BY REGISTERED MAIL)
CFM:lvp: <signature>
(6)
F250
33 APR 30 1957: <empty>
W: <empty>
COMM: FBI
APR 23 1957
MAILED 31: <empty>
<signature>
<signature>
<signature>
SAC, Cincinnati
and government administration in the United States, representing possible admissions against interest. This information was furnished by the Bureau to Assistant Attorney General Tompkins and the Director of the Immigration and Naturalization Service.
In view of the above information and in the absence of any indication that matters related by Eva Reich in her letter to Stringfield are within the Bureau's jurisdiction, Richmond should disregard the lead set out in the last paragraph of referenced Cincinnati letter.
There is enclosed herewith for the Richmond Office an Autostat of Eva Reich's letter to Leonard Stringfield, Cincinnati, Ohio, dated March 19, 1957. In view of Eva Reich's vague threatened use of force (set forth in the last paragraph of her letter to Stringfield), Richmond Division should promptly make this information available to appropriate local officials in Alexandria, Virginia.
62-83894-376
ENCLOSURE
Mr. Leonard Stringfield
C.I.R.F.O. Orbit
7017 Britton Avenue
Cincinnati, 27, Ohio
March 19, 1957
Dear Mr. Stringfield:
This letter is to confirm and elaborate the contents of our telephone conversation on March 12, 1957. At that time I called you on my own initiative, acting as a planetary and U.S. citizen, who was a witness to a series of facts and events designated "OROP Desert Ea". It was my aim to find out whether you would be willing to testify about the facts known to you concerning UFO sighting reports made by the civilian public in the USA and elsewhere, which as Editor of CRIFO Orbit you have collected and filed over several years. I also wanted to know whether under oath you would reveal what you know in your official capacity as former USAF Intelligence officer (This information about you was gleaned from Edward J. Ruppelt's book "The UFO Story"). I finally based my call on the title of your publication "The official Publication of Civilian Research, Interplanetary Flying Objects" as distinguished from the mystics who dabble in the unknown.
I informed you that staffmembers of Expedition Orop Desert Ea, Arizona, 1954-1955 had lodged a charge of treason, fraud, perjury and conspiracy against certain government officials through the office of Senator Margaret Chase Smith on March 1, 1957. That these men had obstructed vital civilian research on the space problem, and have now apparently succeeded in their treacherous attack through defrauding the US court as to the nature of the work carried on during Expedition Orop Desert Ea; the discoverer of Life Energy, Dr. Wilhelm Reich being consequently imprisoned on March 12, 1957. The staff members of Expedition Orop Desert Ea wish to stress that in making their charges they are acting strictly on their own, on the basis of the respective facts known to each one. An investigation by the United States Congress has therefore been requested by us, concerning the underlying facts in this unique scandal. What has to be opened up is the entire field of UFO phenomena, the Undue Secrecy by Airforce headquarters, and the suppression of public news concerning the subject. Evidence points to the existence of a widespread conspiracy of those who want to maintain the status quo of the present world view, the atomic-mechanistic empty space hypothesis, the THEY in the background who want to kill all new knowledge by criminal means. Our evidence shows that "they" are in control of apparently all branches of the government. I feel personally unsure whether there exists at this point any bona fide honest constitutional government. After the events of March 11, 1957 the constitution is dead, Law and rational order has failed. I am basing this statement on the fact that in spite of the evidence on court record the sentence against the Discovery of the Life Energy was executed. For reference you have to go to the nearest US District Court where you will find Volume V Record Appendix to Briefs for Appellants, Case No. 5160, Supreme court Number 688, Secret and Suppressed Evidence, Orop Desert Ea, 1954-1955. The Title of the Report is "Contact with Space", Oranur, Second Report, 1951 - 1956, By Wilhelm Reich. Dr. Reich was found guilty of Contempt of Court for disobeying an UNLAWFUL and Fraudulently obtained order against his work (1954) and for stating at trial that he had to continue with his work for reasons of national security.
open
We, the staff members of this expedition are factual witnesses to some aspects of the work such as: Oranur experiment, Orur (Denatured Nuclear material - in other words "Atoms for Peace"), the Cloud-buster, Cloudbuster plus Orur equals "Spacegun", Disabled Ea (Epsilon alpha Dr. Reich's designation of Space craft)
Conferences With ATIC, notification of government officials in responsible positions, Conferences with CIA; DOR clouds and effects, DOR removal (Smog socalled, also appears as smoky substance subsequent to UFO sightings as you know);DOR as Deadly Orgone Energy ; Orene ; Oranur Weather control : Rainmaking, also over deserts, Hurricane dissipation; Transportation of Orur including "queering of Radar", ; Breakdown (Hemiplegia) of spacegun operator while drawing from Ea, - And many further detailed aspects of OROP Desert Ea work such as the "energetic nodes found experimentally", etc., etc.... There is no shortage of facts , observations, and evidence. But the Truth has so far not yet been heard, which is all it needs to win.
Furthermore there is evidence for espionage against this work: Tapped radio, opened mail etc. Since to date UFO's are officially "nonexistent" The FBI has sofar declined to investigate as the subject is "not within their Jurisdiction". I am personally witness to the fact of the existence of the Orgone Energy Motor, and letters, documents, etc., describing the mysterious disappearance of one William Washington who came into possession of much knowledge concerning "orgonometry, mathematical, and the Motor principle," and who has disappeared since 1949. I am sure any investigating agency could locate his whereabouts in a short time. It is clear that the powerful Oil interests in this country are out to keep their predominance in the field of power and income, and are involved in keeping the Orgone Energy Motor problem suppressed.
These points are mentioned to give you a hint how necessary a bona fide, courageous, forthright investigation has become. I am appending a bibliography for your convenience where you may find some of the printed evidence for our charges.
If no investigation is forthcoming within a reasonably short time we are forced to use force;- to use the scientific power of the Energy which we have learnt to trigger (storms, floods etc.)
Sincerely yours
Eva Reichmoise
Eva Reich MD
(Mrs. William S. Moise)
Rt. 1, POB 721
Alexandria, Va
South 5 - 7081
Other Former Staff members: Expedition Crop Desert
1) Robert A. McCullough Ea
2) William Steig
3) William Moise
PS Since it will take me a day or two to prepare reference list, it will follow and is not enclosed, as stated in letter.
Eva Reich MD
(Mrs. William S. Moise)
Rt. 1, POB 721
Alexandria, Va
ALEXANDRIA, VA
MARCH
7 - PM
1957
Mr. Leonard Stringfield
C.R.I.F.O. Orbit
7017 Britton Avenue
Cincinnati 27, Ohio
AIRMAIL
ENCLOSURES TO BUREAU (62-83894) (RM)
CI. 100-11671
Two autostats of letter to LEONARD H. STRINGFIELD from EVA REICH, M.D. dated 3/19/57.
copy to Richmond as end. to Bulet 4/157

STANDARD FORM NO. 64

Office Memorandum
UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI (62-83894)
DATE: 4/24/57
FROM : SAC, RICHMOND (62-0)
<signature>
SUBJECT: CIVILIAN RESEARCH
Discs
INTERPLANETARY FLYING OBJECTS
LEONARD H. STRINGFIELD, Director,
7017 Britton Ave., Cincinnati 27, Ohio
MISCELLANEOUS - INFORMATION CONCERNING
Relet from Norfolk to Bureau dated 4/18/57.
For information of Bureau, only record in Richmond indices on EVA REICH (Mrs. WILLIAM S. MOISE) is that contained in Richmond letter to Bureau dated 3/28/57 entitled "WILHELM REICH, MISCELLANEOUS - INFORMATION CONCERNING". RUC
TEB/mcw
(4)
2-Director
1-Cincinnati (100-11671)(Info.)
1-Richmond
EXP. PROC.
RECORDED - 26
INDEED - 20
62-83894-377
8 APR 25 1957
-
CRI REO.
25.04.2012
63 MAY 7 1957
APR 26 5 20 PM '57
Cekuim
MR. JONES
APR 29 7 59 AM '57
RECEIVED
FBI
U'S DEPT OF JUSTICE
T-HEXOSYL
T-GLYCOSYL (TGO-GLY) (INT.)
S-DIOL
(1)
СОКСИЛИН - Инс
екретор МИГИЕЛАНТИЧ - НИСЕРГИПОЛЗ - ТИОКСИЛИН
ПОЛУПРОЗРАЧНАЯ ЖИДКОСТЬ
ДЛЯ ВНУТРЕННЕГО И ВНЕШНЕГО ПРИМЕНЕНИЯ
ПОДДЕРЖАНИЯ ТУСТОВОЙ И ВЛАЖНОСТИ (МЯГКИХ МИГИЕЛАНТИЧЕСКИХ) ТЕ
ПОДДЕРЖАНИЯ ТУСТОВОЙ И ВЛАЖНОСТИ (МЯГКИХ МИГИЕЛАНТИЧЕСКИХ) ТЕ
HOMESERVICES - HOVSEWORX
Συμπληρώστε (α-δ)

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION
U. S. DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE
COMMUNICATIONS SECTION
Mr. Tolson: <empty>
Mr. Boardman: <empty>
Mr. Belmont: <empty>
Mr. Mohr: <empty>
Mr. Nease: <empty>
Mr. Parsons: <empty>
Mr. Rosen: <empty>
Mr. Tamm: <empty>
Mr. Trotter: <empty>
Mr. Clayton: <empty>
Tele. Room: <empty>
Mr. Holloman: <empty>
Miss Gandy: <empty>
<signature>
NOV 7 1957
TELETYPE
URGENT 11-7-57 12-41 AM GPU
our
TO DIRECTOR 2
FROM SAC NEW YORK 1P
sflukort.
NEW YORK IP
OFlying DISCS
D FLYING OBJECTS
UNIDENTIFIED FLYING OBJECTS OVER INCORPORATED VILLAGE OF OLD BROOK-
VILLE, LI, NY. EVENING OF ELEVEN SIX FIFTYSEVEN. INFO CONCERNING.
JAMES COLYER, PD OF INC. VILLAGE OF OLD BROOKVILLE ADVISED SEVERAL
RESIDENTS OF THAT AREA AND MEMBER OF PD HAVE REPORTED SIGHTING TWO RED
LIGHTS HOVERING IN AIR THAT VICINITY. LIGHTS APPEAR TO BE AN EVEN
DISTANCE APART AND TO BE JOINED TOGETHER. AT ONE TIME THESE LIGHTS
LIT UP AND SEEMED TO CAST A RED DUST OR FOG IN SURROUNDING AIR.
AIR FORCE BASE
COLYER ADVISED HE REPORTED ABOVE INFO TO MITCHELL AFB AND ROSELYN
AIRFIELD. BOTH ADVISED RECEIVING NUMEROUS REPORTS RE ABOVE AND
ROSELYN AIR FIELD SAID AIRCRAFT ARE INVESTIGATING MATTER. COLYER
ADVISED ABOVE INFO BROADCAST ON NEWS PROGRAM LOCAL RADIO STATION WINS.
OSI, ONE, G-TWO, CAA IN AREA ADVISED.
END AND ACK PLS
NY R 2 WA LO
Северидзе
INDEXED: 19
62-83894-378
13 NOV 8 1957
Mr. Belmont
7 O NOV 20 1957
Ex. 132
ESP. SEC ་
REC'D BELMONT
FBI - JUSTICE
Nov 7 12 36 PM '57
REC'D-TELETYPE UNIT
FBI
Nov 7 12 46 AM '57
INDEXED
RECODED - R
RECID -ESPIDWAGE
FBI
May 15 9 21 AM 57
RE
RECEIVED BY BOARDMAN
NOV 7 11 37 AM 57
37
NOV 7 199 PM 97
REC'D - ESPIONAGE
P101 69
AG6
VIBAIFTO* BOTH VDAIREO BEGELAINE MREYOPS MEBOPIC BE VROE-VHO
COPAXONE 500MG/ML S.C. 57
Nov 19 5 08 PM '57
8PI
5
1980
SERBIDIS 2012 JAVI VSEV VOD NEMEN OL ED KVAE MELODII CIGANIC 66
NOV 7 1957
RECORD OF MONTGOMERY COUNTY JUSTICE
AMERICAN NATIONAL BANK
ΑΤΤΡΕΠΤΕ ΠΡΙΝ ΑΠΟ ΕΠΕΝΔΥΣΗ ΣΕ ΕΠΙΔΕΙΞΗ ΣΙΧ ΕΠΙΔΕΙΞΕΩΝ ΙΔΙΟΚΤΗΣΙΩΝ 17
COSMOS 2020-2021
ECHO SVO ИЕЛ АОБК ТБ
10 DIRECION S
ПОСТАНОВЛЕННЯ 11-1-2014 ПРО СЬО
JETELLIE
WOL S 1821
COMMUNICATIONS SECTION
<table></table>

STANDARD FORM NO. 64

Office Memorandum • UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

TO: DIRECTOR FBI
DATE: 11-8-57
FROM : SAC KANSAS CITY (66-2995)
SUBJECT: FLYING DISCS
INFORMATION CONCERNING
Be
On November 5, 1957, SA (A) WHEATER S. POND received information from Mr. DONALD KEITH GASH, 3012 Blueridge, Kansas City, Missouri that an uncle, LELAND JESSE GASH or JESSE LELAND GASH, employed by an aircraft concern and residing at Fort Worth, Texas, about two years ago saw an unidentified subject in the sky near his home. He obtained his movie camera and took pictures of the object. About eighteen months ago the uncle visited in Kansas City and the movies of the flying disc were shown. According to GASH, the pictures were very good and consisted of about fifteen feet of film.
mo
Mr. GASH stated that he and his uncle have felt "foolish" when discussing the matter and never bothered to report it. He said however in view of the late international developments he felt that the Government should have this information.
In view of the fact that the Bureau may be interested in this film, it is requested that the Dallas Office at Fort Worth, Texas locate and interview LELAND JESSE GASH or JESSE LELAND GASH and obtain the film for transmittal to the Bureau.
It is suggested that the Bureau, after reviewing film, advise the Office of Special Investigations, US of any pertinent information deemed appropriate.
2 - Bureau
2 - Dallas
1 - Kansas City (66-2995)
RECORDED
INDEXED - 83
62-83894-379
WSP:j1
(5)
13
21 NOV 12-1957
SEC
BRs.
64 NOV 18 1957 F492
EXP. PROC.
A
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
I acknowledge and agree that the undersigned has been given the opportunity to review this Agreement and has had a reasonable time to consider its terms and conditions. I understand that I am not required to sign this Agreement and that I have the right to consult with an attorney before signing. I have read and understand the terms and conditions of this Agreement and I voluntarily agree to be bound by them.
or) grive by a robb (snow) all the dethrone of II
46:20
(0)
PM 57
FBI ESPIONAGE
NOV 12 4:45 PM 5

4-41 (Rev. 7-25-57)
DECODED COPY
<signature>
Tolson: <empty>
Nichols: <empty>
Boardman: <empty>
Belmont: [x]
Mohr: <empty>
Parsons: <empty>
Rosen: <empty>
Tamm: <empty>
Trotter: <empty>
Nease: <empty>
Tele. Room: <empty>
Holloman: <empty>
Gandy: <empty>

<signature>
ece
[x] Radio
[ ] Teletype
DEFERRED: 11-8-57
TO DIRECTOR: FLYING DISCS
FROM SAC, HOUSTON 081700: <empty>
<signature>
BLEVINS
UNIDENTIFIED OBJECT WHICH FELL NEAR HOME MRS. DONALD BLEVINS, HOUSTON, TEXAS, OCTOBER 24 LAST. INFORMATION CONCERNING.
MRS. DONALD BLEVINS, 1235 SHAWNNEE, HOUSTON, ADVISED THAT ON OCTOBER 24 LAST OBJECT BETWEEN SIZE OF GOLF BALL AND FIST FELL INTO HER YARD. OBJECT ALLEGEDLY OF METALLIC ASH OF SOME KIND, WAS BRIGHT AND HOT WHEN IT FELL. OBJECT FOUND BY MRS. BLEVINS' SON WHO REPORTED IT TO SCIENCE TEACHER, WHO SUGGESTED AUTHORITIES BE CONTACTED. INFORMATION FURNISHED OSI, ELLINGTON AFB, WHO HAS CONDUCTED INVESTIGATION. PRESS INQUIRY RECEIVED TODAY. ANSWERED BY STATING REPORT OF FALLING OBJECT HAD BEEN RECEIVED AND INFORMATION CONCERNING HAD BEEN RELAYED TO MILITARY AUTHORITIES, ELLINGTON AFB. OBJECT ACCORDING TO OSI IS PART OF AN ORDINARY FLARE AND OF NO SIGNIFICANCE. FOR BUREAUS INFORMATION.
RECEIVED:
4:44 PM RADIO
5:11 PM CODING UNIT HJT
Mr. Belmont
RECORDED - 50
62-8389X-380
[x]
INDEXED-50
18 NOV 12 1957
OIT-X3
<signature>
ESP. SEC.
P 03
70 NOV 20 1957<signature>
REC'D BELMONT
FBI - JUSTICE
REC'D TESTIMONAGE
FBI
Nov 8 6 03 PM '57
Nov 12 8 44 AM '57
REC'O-TELETYPE UNIT
FBI
Nov 8 5 26 PM '57
I am
RECEIVED
OUT
MADRID
SIGNED BY:
Nov 19 3:57 PM
NO TANT DESIRED. NOT SUCH A ZEALOUS GESTURE. TREAT BETWEEN ZITE OF COPE BART AND ESTE TREAT. NO HAZARD TO HEALTH OR YGADGETA TO YGADGETA. PER AARD. OBJECT AGGREGACY OF METALLIC NAR OF DISCOVERY. OBJECT FOUND TO BE A ZEALOUS GESTURE. NO TANT DESIRED. NOT SUCH A ZEALOUS GESTURE. TREAT BETWEEN ZITE OF COPE BART AND ESTE TREAT. NO HAZARD TO HEALTH OR YGADGETA TO YGADGETA. PER AARD. OBJECT AGGREGACY OF METALLIC NAR OF DISCOVERY. OBJECT FOUND TO BE A ZEALOUS GESTURE. NO TANT DESIRED. NOT SUCH A ZEALOUS GESTURE. TREAT BETWEEN ZITE OF COPE BART AND ESTE TREAT. NO HAZARD TO HEALTH OR YGADGETA TO YGADGETA. PER AARD. OBJECT AGGREGACY OF METALLIC NAR OF DISCOVERY. OBJECT FOUND TO BE A ZEALOUS GESTURE. NO TANT DESIRED. NOT SUCH A ZEALOUS GESTURE. TREAT BETWEEN ZITE OF COPE BART AND ESTE TREAT. NO HAZARD TO HEALTH OR YGADGETA TO YGADGETA. PER AARD. OBJECT AGGREGACY OF METALLIC NAR OF DISCOVERY. OBJECT FOUND TO BE A ZEALOUS GESTURE. NO TANT DESIRED. NOT SUCH A ZEALOUS GESTURE. TREAT BETWEEN ZITE OF COPE BART AND ESTE TREAT. NO HAZARD TO HEALTH OR YGADGETA TO YGADGETA. PER AARD. OBJECT AGGREGACY OF METALLIC NAR OF DISCOVERY. OBJECT FOUND TO BE A ZEALOUS GESTURE. NO TANT DESIRED. NOT SUCH A ZEALOUS GESTURE. TREAT BETWEEN ZITE OF COPE BART AND ESTE TREAT. NO HAZARD TO HEALTH OR YGADGETA TO YGADGETA. PER AARD. OBJECT AGGREGACY OF METALLIC NAR OF DISCOVERY. OBJECT FOUND TO BE A ZEALOUS GESTURE. NO T
UNAUTHORIZED TO MATCH EET NEW HOME MFG
CORT80 MOTSUOH, OAS MORA
TO DIRECTOR
DELETED 11-8-21
KONO
geologie
DECODED COBA

4-41 (Rev. 7-25-57)
DECODED COPY
<signature>
Tolson: [x]
Nichols: [x]
Boardman: [x]
Belmont: [x]
Mohr: <empty>
Parsons: <empty>
Rosen: [x]
Tamm: <empty>
Trotter: <empty>
Nease: <empty>
Tele. Room: <empty>
Holloman: <empty>
Gandy: <empty>
[x] Radio
[ ] Teletype
<signature>
<signature>
DEFERRED: 11-8-57
TO DIRECTOR: FLYING DISCS
FROM SAC, SPRINGIELD: 072245
<signature>
REPORT OF SIGHTING OF UNKNOWN FLYING OBJECT NEAR DANVILLE,
<signature>
ILLINOIS
STATE
POLICE
ILLINOIS, NOVEMBER 6, 1957, INFORMATION CONCERNING. ASSISTANT
CHIEF WALTER A. EICHEN, ILLINOIS STATE POLICE, REPORTED THAT
ISP OFFICERS CALVIN SHOWERS AND JOHN MATULIS, DISTRICT TEN,
REPORTED AT APPROXIMATELY 9:00 PM, NOVEMBER 7, 1957, SIGHTING
A BRIGHT WHITE LIGHT FLYING THROUGH THE AIR IN A SOUTHWESTERLY
DIRECTION FROM DANVILLE, ILLINOIS. OFFICERS TRIED TO FOLLOW
IN THEIR CAR IN THE SAME DIRECTION AND DROVE GENERALLY IN A
SOUTHWESTERLY DIRECTION FOR TWENTY MILES WHEN THEY LOST SIGHT
OF THE OBJECT. DURING THIS TIME IT APPEARED AS BRIGHT WHITE,
AMBER AND ORANGE. NO INDICATION THAT IT DIPPED TO THE GROUND
OR THAT IT AFFECTED THEIR CAR. THEY REPORTED FOR A FEW SECONDS
IT SEEMED TO AFFECT BOTH THE RECEIVER AND TRANSMITTER OF THEIR
FM TWO-WAY RADIO. REPRESENTATIVES OF INTERNATIONAL NEWS SERVICE
INQUIRED THIS OFFICE CONCERNING, NO COMMENT WAS MADE. ABOVE
BEING FURNISHED FOR INFORMATION BUREAU.
RECEIVED:
11:49 AM RADIO
RECORDED - 50
12:17 PM CODING UNIT
INDEXED-50
MW
62-83894-381
Mr. Rosen
70 NOV 20 1957

Fred Gevre, OSI, Bolling Field
Duty Officer given above info
12 30/p 11/9/57
sw
ESP
SRC
cc Mr. Belmont
If the intelligence contained in the above message is to be disseminated outside the Bureau, it is suggested that it be suitably paraphrased in order to protect the Bureau's cryptographic systems.
SPIONAG
BT
18 5 11 PM
RECD - ESPIONAGE
FBI
Nov 9 Nov 12 8 51 AM '57
RECEIVED
NO. 1 MAN
INVESTIGATIVE DIVISION
Nov 12 10:55 AM
RECEIVED
NO. 1 MAN
INVESTIGATIVE DIVISION
Nov 8 1957 42 PM
COPY
NOV 8 6:32 PM '51
RECEIVED B I
U S DEPT OF JUSTICE
OUT
OUT
NOV 8 12 58 PM '51
FBI
MUNICATIONS SECTION
RECEIVED
ROSEN
NOV 8 1957
COMM

U.S. DEPT. OF JUSTICE
FBI
NOV 15, 1957
JUSTICE
NOV 8 3:02 PM 57
REC'D-TELETYPE UNIT
F B I
PM, 57
RECEIVED
NOV 12 10:37 PM 57
NOV 8 2:14 PM 57
FBI
U.S. DEPT. OF JUSTICE
RECEIVED - NICHOLS
F B I
Nov 8 7 06 PM 57
RECD BELMONT
FBI - JUSTICE
Nov 9 12 19 PM 57
Nov 19 3:57 PM 57
U.S DEPT OF JUSTICE
FBI
LIASON SECTION

EXECUTIVE OFFICE OF THE PRESIDENT
NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL
WASHINGTON
November 5, 1957
MEMORANDUM FOR MR. ALAN H. BELMONT
ASSISTANT DIRECTOR, FBI
Pursuant to my conversation with you a few moments ago, there is enclosed a letter received by General Cutler's office today from Mr. W. Kiasuski, 5457 Jos. Campau, Detroit 11, Michigan.
It would be appreciated if the Bureau, at its convenience, would arrange for a representative to interview Mr. Kiasuski for the purpose of obtaining any information in his possession in elaboration of the substance of his letter.
Your assistance in this and related matters is appreciated.
This. I told him I would write if he would send over the letter
J. Patrick Coyne
Enclosure
ADDENDUM: I would appreciate the return of Mr. Kiasuski's letter when it has served your purpose.
JPC
aw
(ENCLOSURE
RECORDED-84
62-83894-388
13 NOV 19 1957
FLYING DISCS
Jacket to Action
11-6-57
ESS

EXECUTIVE OFFICE OF THE PRESIDENT
NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL
WASHINGTON
Nov 6 12:54 PM 87
RECID ESPIONAGE
AR-CHICAGO
COPY
Nov. 4, 57.
Dear Mr. Robert Cutler;
I might have some information about the rocket in Texas.
I heard about it on the Polish Radio Program.
I would like to know to whom I could speak to.
Sincerely Your's
Mr. W. Krasuski
5457 Jos. Campau
Detroit 11, Mioh.
COPY
60-63891-342
ENCLOSURE
November 6, 1957
TELETYPE
URGENT PLAIN TEXT
SAC, DETROIT
62-63894-382
RECORDED-84
UNIDENTIFIED FLYING OBJECTS, IS-X. MR. W. KIASUSKI, ELEVEN
FIVE FOUR FIVE SEVEN JOS. CAMPAU, DETROIT, MICHIGAN,
ADDRESSED LETTER DATED NOVEMBER FOURTH TO ROBERT CUTLER,
WHO IS SPECIAL ASSISTANT TO THE PRESIDENT, STATING QUOTE I
MIGHT HAVE SOME INFORMATION ABOUT THE ROCKET IN TEXAS. I
HEARD ABOUT IT ON THE POLISH RADIO PROGRAM. I WOULD LIKE
TO KNOW TO WHOM I COULD SPEAK TO. UNQUOTE IMMEDIATELY
INTERVIEW KIASUSKI FOR ANY INFORMATION HE MAY HAVE. BUFFLES
REFLECT NO INFORMATION RE KIASUSKI. SUTEL.
ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED
DATE: 5/22/85
BY: 
CONF # 245974
FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION
U. S. DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE
COMMUNICATIONS SECTION
NOV 6 1957
TELETYPE
5-40 PM C2
ESS: dmn
(3)
BEC.D EPIONY
HOOVER
Tolson: 
Nichols: 
Boardman: 
Belmont: 
Mohr: 
Parsons: 
Rosen: 
Tamm: 
Trotter: 
Nease: 
Tele. Room: 
Holloman: 
Gandy:
Teletype Unit
t
LBI
ЗЕС.П - ЕЗЫОМУСЕ ИОЛ
6 8 NOV 21 1957
2012. 11. 25
691-7NEICE
ECO BE
MAIL ROOM
J. W. WaBs
62-83894
USED VEHICO
REC'D BELMO
FBI - JUSTIC
Nov 7 II 33 AM
Dated: 
Between: 
and: 
Parties: 
Terms:
REC'D BELMONT
FBI - JUSTICE
Nov 6 2 07PM '57
REC'D-ESPIONAGE
FBI
NOV 13 12 55 PM '57
NOV 6 4:01 PM (3)
RECEIVED - BOARDMA
RECEIVED BOARD
Nov 6 4:53 PM '5
REC'D ESPIONAGE FBI
Nov 13 2 33 PM '57
MON P. ION
RECORDED-PA
1945
FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION
U. S. DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE
COMMUNICATIONS SECTION
NOV 7 1957
TELETYPE
Mr. Tolson: <empty>
Mr. Boardman: <empty>
Mr. Belmont: [x]
Mr. Mohr: <empty>
Mr. Nease: <empty>
Mr. Parsons: <empty>
Mr. Rosen: <empty>
Mr. Tamm: <empty>
Mr. Trotter: <empty>
Mr. Clayton: <empty>
Tele. Room: <empty>
Mr. Holloman: <empty>
Miss Gandy: <empty>
<signature>: <signature>
URGENT 11-7-57 4-55 PM EST WHH
TO DIRECTOR FBI
0 FLYING DISCS
FROM SAC, DETROIT 1P
UNIDENTIFIED FLYING OBJECTS, IS - X. REBUTEL NOV SIX LAST.
(b)(6) WŁAYSLAW KRASUSKI, AKA WALTER KRASUSKI, DOB
A LAST:
N/A Mich
Loer
(b) (6)
WAS GERMAN POW
MAY, NINETEEN FORTY TWO, UNTIL SUMMER OF NINETEEN FOURTYFIVE.
ARRIVED NY MAY TWO, NINETEEN FIFTYONE, AS DP, AR NO.
(b) (6)
(b) (6)
KRASUSKI UPON INTERVIEW
ADVISED THAT WHILE GERMAN POW DURING NINETEEN FORTYFOUR OBSERVED
A VEHICLE DESCRIBED AS CIRCULAR IN SHAPE, SEVENTY FIVE TO ONE
HUNDRED YARDS IN DIAMETER, APPROXIMATELY FOURTEEN FEET HIGH. THE
VEHICLE WAS OBSERVED TO SLOWLY RISE VERTICALLY TO HEIGHT
SUFFICIENT TO CLEAR FIFTY FOOT WALL AND TO MOVE SLOWLY
HORIZONTALLY A SHORT DISTANCE OUT OF VIEW OBSTRUCTED BY TREES.
ENGINE OF TRACTOR FAILED TO OPERATE DURING THIS PERIOD AND
ONE OTHER OCCASION WHEN HIGH PITCHED WHINNING NOISE HEARD
-
IN AREA. NO INDICATION OF MENTAL INSTABILITY DURING
INTERVIEW. FURTHER DETAILS FOLLOW AMSD.
J.D. Coyne
telephonically
advised
11/8/57
2008
E-CORRECT LINE FOUR WORD WX FOUR SHLD BE "TWO"
END AND A K PLS
62-83894-
EW
RECORDED-84
INJEXED - 84
Yulee, Atlee, CIN
X 4-58 PM OK FBI WA EW
TU DIC
Mr. Belmont
NOV 13 1957
esthenaigan
EX 105
zusätz
Key to Copy, NSC (Eir), returning 8th
cc: state, CEA, Army, Navy, AF, INs
11-8-57 - ESS
ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED
DATE: 5-24-62
1 - Mr. Boardman
2 - Mr. Belmont
3 - Mr. Sanders
4 - Liaison
BY COURIER SERVICE
November 8, 1957
Mr. J. Patrick Coyne
National Security Council
Executive Office Building
Washington 25, D. C.
ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED
DATE: 5/20/85
BY: 
COMP #: 045974
RECORDED-84
INDEXED
6J 63894 - 383
Dear Pat:
Reference is made to the letter addressed to "Mr. Robert Cutler, Washington 25, D. C.," by Mr. W. X Krasuski, 5457 Jos. Campau, Detroit 11, Michigan, in which Mr. Krasuski advised that he might have some information "about the rocket in Texas." He desired to know to whom he could speak in this regard.
EX 105
Mr. Krasuski was interviewed on November 7, at which time he advised that his name is Wlayslaw Krasuski that he is also known as Walter Krasuski, that he was on (b) (6) , and that he is a German prisoner of war from May, 1942, until the Surrender of 1945. Krasuski advised that he arrived in New York on May 2, 1951, as a displaced person, Alien Registration Number (b) (6) . He advised that during 1944, while he was a German prisoner of war, he observed a vehicle described as circular in shape, seventy-five to one hundred yard diameter, and approximately fourteen feet high. He stated the vehicle was observed to rise vertically to a height sufficient to clear a fifty-foot wall and that it moved slowly horizontally a short distance out of view which was obstructed by trees. He stated that the engine of a tractor failed to operate during this period and that the engine failed on one other occasion when a high-pitch whining noise was heard in the area. During the interview Krasuski spoke in a rational manner with no indication of mental instability.
Mich
e was
ibed
is in
tated
to
ed
h was
the
ed
erview,
Lee M
Tolson: 
Nichols: 
Boardman: 
Belmont: 
Mohr: 
Parsons: 
Rosen: 
Tamm: 
Trotter: 
Nease: 
Tele. Room: 
Holloman: 
Gandy:
ESS:dmn
(13)
MAIL ROOM
Touver
BY COURIER SVC.
957
03 NOV 12
COMM - FBI
Mr. J. Patrick Coyne
You will be advised of any further information which may be received regarding Krasuski and the information furnished by him.
Pursuant to your request, Mr. Krasuski's letter is returned herewith.
Sincerely yours,
J. Edgar Hoover
Enclosure
- 1 - Office of Security
Department of State
- I - Director
Central Intelligence Agency
Attention: Deputy Director, Plans
- 1 - Assistant Chief of Staff, Intelligence
Department of the Army
Attention: Chief, Security Division
- I - Director of Naval Intelligence
- 1 - Office of Special Investigations
Air Force
- 1 - Immigration and Naturalization Service

-2-
FD-36 (Rev. 3-1-56)
F B I
Date: 11/7/57
Mr. Tolson: 
Mr. Boardman: 
Mr. Belmont: 
Mr. Mohr: 
Mr. Nease: 
Mr. Parsons: 
Mr. Rosen: 
Mr. Tamm: 
Mr. Trotter: 
Mr. Clayton: 
Tele. Room: 
Mr. Holloman: 
Miss Gandy:
Transmit the following message via: AIRTEL
(Priority or Method of Mailing): AMSD - RM
TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

Flying Saucers
T (100-26505)

Sayers
FROM: SAC, DETROIT (100-26505)
UNIDENTIFIED FLYING OBJECTS; IS - X.
Re Detroit Teletype to Bureau, 11/7/57, captioned "UNIDENTIFIED FLYING OBJECTS; IS - X."
Interview of WLADYSŁAW KRASUSKI, aka. WALTER KRASUSKI, reported in Blank Memo, five copies of which are enclosed herewith for the Bureau, was conducted by SA CASSIUS RATHBUN.
No indication of irrational or otherwise abnormal behavior by KRASUSKI was observed during the interview.
KRASUSKI advised that his communication was directed to Mr. ROBERT CUTLER rather than to President EISENHOWER after seeing Mr. CUTLER's picture and identification with the President's Office in a local paper.
Krasuski resides with his wife, nee JOANNA WISNIEWSKI, Krasuski married in 1952 at Detroit, and four small children,in a single residence in an old Polish neighborhood at 5457 Jos. mich Campau Avenue, Detroit. No previous record located in Detroit Indices identifiable with KRASUSKI or his wife.
On 11/7/57, WILLIAM RECKNAGEL, Manager, advised IC PAUL DESMOND that records of the Mich. Merchants Credit Association, reflect only credit inquiries concerning WALTER KRASUSKI during 6/56 and 3/57 and 6/57, which confirm his local address and employment.
3 - Bureau (Encls.5)(RM)
1 - Detroit

CR:JLK
(4)

ENCLOSURE
EX - 116

AIRTEL

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED
HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED
DATE 5/20/85 BY SP-6 bja/ly
Comp# 0459740

INDEXED-10
RECORDED-18

EX - 116

62-83894-384
20

21 NOV 8 1957

NOV 25 1957

Approved: <signature>
Special Agent in Charge
Sent <empty> M Per <empty>
cc: 055 CIN, Army Transpt.
11-15-57
RECEIVED
Nov 8 11 22 AM '57
INTERNAL SECURITY SECT.
FBI
RECEIVED-DIRECTOR
FRT
Nov 15 11 09 AM '57
REGID ESPIONAGE
FBI
NOV 18 1997
RECD: ESPIONAGE
The Cures
IC Regimen
Gene Xuan
W. Ching
K. S. Kuo
H. L. Kuo
W. L. Kuo
W. L. Kuo
W. L. Kuo
W. L. Kuo
W. L. Kuo
W. L. Kuo
W. L. Kuo
W. L. Kuo
W. L. Kuo
W. L. Kuo
W. L. Kuo
W. L. Kuo
W. L. Kuo
W. L. Kuo
W. L. Kuo
W. L. Kuo
W. L. Kuo
W. L. Kuo
W. L. Kuo
W. L. Kuo
W. L. Kuo
W. L. Kuo
W. L. Kuo
W. L. Kuo
W. L. Kuo
W. L. Kuo
W. L. Kuo
W. L. Kuo
W. L. Kuo
W. L. Kuo
W. L. Kuo
W. L. Kuo
W. L. Kuo
W. L. Kuo
W. L. Kuo
W. L. Kuo
W. L. Kuo
W. L. Kuo
W. L. Kuo
W. L. Kuo
W. L. Kuo
W. L. Kuo
W. L. Kuo
W. L. Kuo
W. L. Kuo
W. L. Kuo
W. L. Kuo
W. L. Kuo
W. L. Kuo
W. L. Kuo
W. L. Kuo
W. L. Kuo
W. L. Kuo
W. L. Kuo
W. L. Kuo
W. L. Kuo
W. L. Kuo
W. L. Kuo
W. L. Kuo
W. L. Kuo
W. L. Kuo
W. L. Kuo
W. L. Kuo
W. L. Kuo
W. L. Kuo
W. L. Kuo
W. L. Kuo
W. L. Kuo
W. L. K
UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE
FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION
Detroit 31, Michigan
November 7, 1957
In Reply, Please Refer to
File No.
ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED
HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED
DATE: 5/20/85
BY: sp6bjr/tcy
comp#: 345974
ECTS: <empty>
UNIDENTIFIED FLYING OBJECTS
In response to a letter directed by him to Mr. Robert Cutler, Special Assistant to President Dwight D. Eisenhower,reflecting that he "might have some information about the rocket in Texas," Wladyslaw Krasuski, 5457 Joseph Campau, Detroit, was interviewed November 7, 1957, and furnished the following information:
Born (b) (6)
Krasuski was brought from Poland as a Prisoner of War to Gut Alt Golssen,approximately 30 miles east of Berlin, Germany, in May, 1942, where he remained until a few weeks after the end of World War II. He spent the following years at Displaced Persons Camps at Kork, Strasburg, Offenburg, Milheim and Freiburg, Germany. He attended a radio technician school at Freiburg and for about a year was employed in a textile mill at Laurachbaden, Germany. He arrived in the United States at New York, May 2, 1951, via the "S.S. General Stewart" as a Displaced Person, destined to the Reverend Father Petro Walkowiak, Hamtramck, Michigan; his alien registration number -
(b) (6)
Since May, 1951, he has been employed at the Gobel
Brewery, Detroit.
News report of mysterious vehicle in Texas causing engines to stall prompted him to communicate with the United States Government concerning a similar phenomenon observed by him in 1944 in the area of Gut Alt Golssen.
According to Krasuski, during 1944, month not recalled, while enroute to work in a field a short distance north of Gut Alt Golssen, their tractor engine stalled on a road through a swamp area. No machinery or other vehicle was then visible although a noise was heard described as a high-pitched whine similar to that produced by a large electric generator.
62-83894-384
ENCLOSURE
An "SS" guard appeared and talked briefly with the German driver of the tractor, who waited five to ten minutes, after which the noise stopped and the tractor engine was started normally. Approximately 3 hours later in the same swamp area, but away from the road where the work crew was cutting "hay", he surreptitiously, because of the German in charge of the crew and "SS" guards in the otherwise deserted area, observed a circular enclosure approximately 100 to 150 yards in diameter protected from viewers by a tarpaulin-type wall approximately 50 feet high, from which a vehicle was observed to slowly rise vertically to a height sufficient to clear the wall and then to move slowly horizontally a short distance out of his view, which was obstructed by nearby trees.
This vehicle, observed from approximately 500 feet, was described as circular in shape, 75 to 100 yards in diameter, and about 14 feet high, consisting of dark gray stationary top and bottom sections, five to six feet high. The approximate three foot middle section appeared to be a rapidly moving component producing a continuous blur similar to an aeroplane propeller, but extending the cir- cumference of the vehicle so far as could be observed. The noise emanating from the vehicle was similar but of somewhat lower pitch than the noise previously heard. The engine of the tractor again stalled on this occasion and no effort was made by the German driver to start the engine until the noise stopped, after which the engine started normally.
Uninsulated metal, possibly copper, cables one and one-half inch to two inches in diameter, on and under the surface of the ground, in some places covered by water, were observed on this and previous occasions, apparently running between the enclosure and a small concrete column-like structure between the road and enclosure.
This area was not visited by Krasuski again until shortly after the end of World War II, when it was observed the cables had been removed and the previous locations of the concrete structure and the enclosure were covered by water. Krasuski stated he has not been in communication since 1945 with any of the work crew of 16 or 18 men, consisting of Russian, French and Polish POWs, who had discussed this incident among themselves many times. However, of these, Krasuski was able to recall by name only Franciszek Grabowski, no address known, described as then about 50 years of age and presumed by Krasuski to have returned to Poland after 1945.
get
APPROX. 1894
[x]
This report is loaned to you by the FBI, and neither it nor its contents are to be distributed outside your agency.
Boardman
Belmont
Sanders
1 - Liaison
42761
BY COURIER SERVICE
RECORDED-18
November 15, 1957
62-83894-384
Mr. J. Patrick Coyne
National Security Council
Executive Office Building
Washington 25, D. C.
Dear Pat:
Reference is made to my letter of November 8, 1957, furnishing information supplied by Mr. Wladyslaw Krasuski concerning an unidentified flying object which he observed in 1944 while in Germany.
Attached is a copy of a memorandum which reflects the details of the interview with Mr. Krasuski. A copy of the memorandum has also been furnished to each of the agencies receiving a copy of this letter, listed below, as a matter of interest to those agencies.
FBI
REC'D-READING ROOM
Nov 15 10:39 AM '57
11 NOV 18
COMM-FBI
Enclosure
V.
Sincerely yours,
J. Edgar Hoover
1 - Office of Special Investigations
Air Force (ENCLOSURE)
1 - Director
Central Intelligence Agency
Attention: Deputy Director, Plans (ENCLOSURE)
1 - Assistant Chief of Staff, Intelligence
Department of the Army
(EXCLOSURE)
Attention: Chief, Security Division
ESS: 6mm
(79)
7 GRNV 25 1957
AIL ROOM 
347
ВЕС.О ВЕГНОЙ
JUN 14/75 me Bill 23
REC'D BELMONT
FBI - JUSTICE
Nov 14 12 46 PM '57
RECEIVED-MAIL
FBI
DEPT. OF JUST
DO
REC'D SELMONT
FBI - JUSTICE
NOV 13, 6 36 PM '57
8:30
20 1440 S 1
vool ag
D-DIRECTOR
11 09 AM '57
RECEIVED
9.25 AM 57
REGAEDR
