4-596 (Rev. 3-20-79)
RTMENT OF JUSTICE
The image contains a barcode. The text surrounding the image indicates "DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE" and "SERIALS 1-52 62-HQ-83894".
62-HQ-83894
SERIALS 1-52
0062 83894
Class/Case #: 
Sub Vol.: 
Serial #:
HQ - HEADQUARTERS
FBI - CENTRAL RECORDS CENTER
MOVED FROM OR ADDED TO TH
AL BUREAU
OF
TIGATION
QUARTERS
+
SECTION 1
F
RRP003IXH5
8111274199
1
1
52
DO NOT
DESTROY
FOIPA #: 993087.
PICKETT STREET
DO NOT DESTROY
FOIPA # 1366409
SERIALS 1-52
SECTION
Declassification authority derived from FBI Automatic Declassification Guide, issued May 24, 2007.
Transfer - Call 3421
Use Care in Handling this File
72055
Ev
Mr. Tolson
 Mr. E. A. Tamm
 Mr. Clegg
 Mr. Coffey
 Mr. Glavin
 Mr. Ladd
 Mr. Nichols
 Mr. Rosen
 Mr. Tracy
 Mr. Carson
 Mr. Egan
 Mr. Hendon
 Mr. Pennington
 Mr. Quinn Tamm
 Mr. Nease
 Miss Gandy
105
More About Saucers

Priest Finds 'Whirring' Disc In Yard and Holds It for FBI

Chicago, July 6 (U.P.)—A Catholic priest at Grafton, Wis., said tonight that a round, metal disc, which might be one of the mysterious "flying saucers," had crashed into his parish yard and that he is holding it for the Federal Bureau of Investigation.
FBI office said he hadn't heard yet about the disc but that an official report might be at his office.
The flying discs have been reported "seen" by persons in 30 States, but Brasky's disc was the first one that actually had been found—if that is what was found.
The Rev. Joseph Brasky of St. Joseph's Church at Grafton, 45 miles north of Milwaukee, said he heard a swishing and whirring noise this morning. A second later, he said, he heard a thud and a mild explosion.
His report came a few hours after a military plane made an unsuccessful speed dash in an attempt to track down one of the discs and the Army and scientists sought to ascertain whether coast-to-coast reports about the discs zooming through the sky were fact or fancy.
He investigated and found a sheet metal disc about 18 inches in diameter, resembling a circular saw blade.
Army planes scoured the northwest Pacific skies for them without success today and one "eyewitness" even reported having seen one of the discs take off in Arizona. A St. Louis railroad man exhibited some paper "discs" he said he had seen floating over St. Louis.
"The object still was warm, weighed about four or five pounds and was about one eighth of an inch thick," he said.
There was a hole about one inch in diameter in the middle of the disc, he said, and in the open-ing were "gadgets and some wires."
The flying saucers which have been reported skimming through America's skies at speeds up to 1200 miles have eluded the usual-ly keen eye of radar.
The priest said he did not know if his discovery were important whether it might be an elaborate practical joke. He said he had notified the FBI of his find. H. K. Johnson of the Milwaukee
Capt. Tom Brown of the Army
He later
wound me
The wound
na

le
1-2
1-18
H28
SE 40
INDEX
98
162-83894-1
NOT RECORDED
83 JUL 10 1947
JUL 18 194
JUL 7 1947
WASHINGTON POST
Page 1
JUL AM '47
RECEIVED
POLSON
FBI
U.S. DEPT. OF JUSTICE
MIGIOLI
-DIRECTOR
RECEIVED-TAHH
FBI
U.S. DEPT. OF JUSTICE
JUL 7 12 42 PM '47
RECEIVED
U.S. DEPT. OF JUSTICE
JUL 7 8 59 AM '47
MR. JONES
JUL 9 9:53 AM '47
RECEIVED
FBI
US DEPT. OF JUSTICE
CERS—From Page

Priest Finds 'Witch
In Yard and Holds 1

said the Army Airways Communications Service had reported late yesterday that so far its radar scopes throughout the country have been unable to pick up any strange objects in flight.
And in the Pacific Northwest—where most of the fly-happy platters have been reported—the Army has radar equipment which can pierce fog and darkness and pick up objects in the sky 200 miles away.
Even so, Brown acknowledged that the Air Forces had decided "there's something to this" and had been checking it for 10 days. "And we still haven't the slightest idea what they could be," he added.
added.
And a new wrinkle-the reported landing of a fleet of eight skim-
ming platters-was reported from Idaho in full view of 10 persons. A.
Dishman, Idaho housewife, said she and others in her party had seen the saucers land on a moun-
tainside near St. Maries, Idaho.
She said they came into view at an extreme speed, suddenly slowed, and then "fluttered like leaves to the ground."
"The mysterious part was that we couldn't see them after they landed," she said. "We could see them flutter down into the timber yet we couldn't see that they did anything to the trees."
anything to the trees.
She said she hoped to hike into the timber tomorrow and search for the objects which she said were saucer-shaped but resembled wash-tubs more than disks and were "about the size of a five-room house."
Locally, Hazen Kennedy of 2615
4th st. ne. reported he had seen
one passing over the Northeast
section of the city at about 8:40
p. m
This would be the first one reported over the District, although others have been reported over nearby Maryland.
Kennedy, who has 125 hours flying time as a student pilot in the Army Air Forces to his credit, said he believed the saucer he had seen was traveling at "well over" 1000 miles an hour at an altitude of between 1200 and 1500 feet.
"The best way I can describe it," said Kennedy, "was that it looked like an orange lamp bulb without the socket. It was going faster than any jet plane I've ever seen."
In Hagerstown, Md., Mrs. Madelyn Ganoe, 30, said she had seen five of the discs, racing in 2-1-2 formation at "terrific speed," from her backporch. "They sounded like a faraway train," she said.
In the wake of these new eyewitness accounts came a new series of comments, and explanations, but most of them were tinged with a slight tendency to laugh off the whole thing.
Dr. Winfred Overholser, nationally known psychiatrist and superintendent of St. Elizabeths Hospital here, said it "has some of the earmarks of being national hysteria."
"Everytime someone comes up with a sea-serpent story," said Dr. Overholser, "others with vivid imaginations are sure they have seen the same thing.
"The critical faculty in man, the last one he received, is still not very well developed. Scratch the surface and you find the same mass hysteria which predominated during the witchcraft scare. Some persons are quite ready to see things and follow beliefs."
things and follow beings.
Dr. Overholser said that when
he made his rounds of the mental
patients yesterday at St. Eliza-
beths not a one commented on the
flying saucers story.
I think they may be a little skeptical," he added.
However, Dr. Overholser said he wasn't trying to dismiss the matter as a joke "because there are so many strange things going on today that one can't be sure."
Maj. Alexander P. de Seversky,
noted aircraft designer, told The
Post by telephone from New York
that until he sees a flying saucer
he "wouldn't like to pass judg
ment."
He agreed with Dr. Overholser that much if not all of the story may be because of hysteria.
"After all," he said, "we are more or less an hysterical Nation."
Major de Seversky said it was possible that the persons who claim to have seen the aerial discs have instead glimpsed the exhaust of jet-propelled planes.
He conceded, too, that they might be guided missiles let loose as part of an experiment, but added:
"I don't think the Government would fire them so promiscuously. They would test them in one spot, in an isolated area, like they did the atomic bomb."
The atomic bomb.
Maj. Gen. Curtis E. LeMay, who
as Deputy Chief of Air Staff for
Research and Development would
know if the saucers involved ex-
periments with guided missiles,
commented:
commented:
"Whatever these people have seen it hasn't been anything resulting from experiments by the Army Air Forces. As for as I'm concerned there's nothing to it at all. The whole thing is un-
fortunat
"There's been too much said about guided missiles now," he said.
Howard W. Blakeslee, Associated Press science editor, said the whole business may be an optical illusion.
"At any distance which is close to the limit of how far a person can see," he wrote, "all objects appear round or nearly so. This law of sight covers both small things seen nearby and large ones at great distances.
"The one outstanding fact about virtually all the saucers is that they had no structure—they seemed merely round and flat. That description fits exactly with the tricks that eyes play. This trickness varies with differences in weather and lighting."
However, Nova Hart, St. Louis mechanic who was trained during service in the war to spot all types of aircraft, yesterday offered a minute description of one of the flying patterns which he claimed he saw flying at an altitude of about 300 feet.

Reporter Sees One
Reporter Stu's One
He described it as circular with a ribbed framework and silver gray in color. He said it appeared to have a motor with a propeller attached in the center and that it kept turning like an airplane doing a slow roll.
Although many explanations have been offered, none has been convincing. A Los Angeles newspaper quoted an unnamed nuclear physicist as saying the silvery disc resulted from experiments in the "transmutation of atomic energy."
This report was rapidly herded into the hoax column by David Lilienthal, chairman of the Atomic Energy Commission, and several prominent atomic scientists.

Starr Expects Word
Louis E. Starr, national commander of the Veterans of Foreign Wars, announced Saturday at Columbus, Ohio, that he was expecting "momentarily" information from Washington which would explain the dashing discs. But the message never arrived.
The Air Forces said that Gen. Carl Spaatz, Air Forces chief, was in the Pacific Northwest where most of the saucers have been reported, but added that his trip there was planned two months ago, long before the saucers scare. General Spaatz is expected back in Washington late tomorrow.
Muroc Army Air Field in California had a P-80 jet fighter standing by, and the National Guard in Oregon had prepared six regular fighters to give chase should saucers be reported nearby.
Image: United States postage stamp

- **Denomination:** 5 Cents
- **Subject:** Portrait of James Madison
- **Text:** UNITED STATES POSTAGE
| City | Date | Time | Year |
|---|---|---|---|
| New Brunswick | Jul 5 | 2 PM | 1947 |
The image shows a series of wavy, horizontal lines on a beige background. The lines vary in thickness and intensity, with some appearing darker and more solid, while others are fainter and broken. There is a small, illegible marking in the center right of the image. The context "The 2 Nail Bd. N." suggests this might be a detail from a document, a security feature, or a decorative element.
Ghe N.D. B.D.
Washington
District of Colombia
Dear 31.B.D.:

It is my opinion about those "FLYING DISCS" reported seen over, Kentucky, New Mexico, California, Oregon, Washington, Idaho, Colorado, South Carolina and Eastern Canada that some European country is using them by filling them up with germs or highly explosives, and after a complete thousand miles they drop their contents and disappear.

RECORDED 62-83894
32 JUL 8 1947

63JUL 16 1947
lots disenfrant on hand.
On else something might happen
to us in the United States.
From.
a friend

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION
U. S. DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE
COMMUNICATIONS SECTION
JUL 8 1947
Geri
TELETYPE
105
| Mr. Tolson             |
|-|
| Mr. E. A. Tamm         |
| Mr. Clegg              |
| M. Glavin<br />r. Ladd |
| Mr. Nichols            |
| Mr. Resen              |
| Mr. Tracy              |
| Mr. Egan               |
| Mr. Gurnea             |
| Mr. Harbo              |
| Mr. Mohr               |
| Mr. Pennington         |
| Mr. Quinn Tamm.        |
| Mr. Nease<br />Gay     |
1-87
Miss Candy:
FBI NEW ORLEANS 7-8-47 11-22 AM TMC
DIRECTOR ROUTEIN
RE FLYING DISCS, MISCELLANEOUS. Disc 2010 REPORTED FOUND BY F. G.  HARISTON
REVEALED TO BE PRANK.
d
U BE PRANK.
Flying Saucers
WEEKS: Flying
END: 9
1-24 PM OK FBI WA BW
V
Reynolds,
at 9am
130 Pl
RECORDED
INDEED
1062 - 83894 - 3
FBI
29 JUL 10 1947
98
50
57 JUL 18 1947 S 144
RECEIVED
LIAISON SECTION
9-11 45 AM '47
FBI
DEPT. OF JUSTICE
RECEIVED
IL 9 13 AM '67
INTERNAL SECURITY
F.B.I.
DEPT. OF JUSTICE
JUL. 8 2:37 PM '47
RECEIVED-LADD
FBI
US DEPT OF JUSTICE
RECEIVED TELETYPE UNIT
Jul 8 1 25 PM '47
F.B.I. DEPT. OF JUSTICE
This image contains all the information on the document.
lc)
CONFIDENTIAL
BY SPECIAL MESSENGER
te: August 5, 1947
Director of Intelligence
War Department General Staff
The Pentagon
Washington 25, D. C.
Attention: Colonel L. R. Forney, Chief, Security Group
From: John Edgar Hoover - Director, Federal Bureau of Investigation
Subject: FRED R. REIBOLD
There are attached hereto copies of a letter above-captioned individual, together with copies of an enclosure, concerning "flying discs."
Mr. Reibold's letter has been acknowledged that copies of his letter have been furnished to you
a newspaper clipping and he has been a for your consider
STATIONS SECTION
AILED 11
1947 P.M.
894 - 4
INVESTIGATION
OF JUSTICE
APPROPRIA
AND FIF
34/4
STATE AGENCIES
DECLASSIFIED BY: 1259
ON: 10-25-78
Federal Bureau of Investigation
Washington D. C. Flying Arcos
Gentleman:
on July 7th 1947, 10:30 P.M.
S GERTRUDE SMIFFEN my mother in law and I witnessed a flaming object which dropped in street in front of our house at 2315 Kimbaugh Ave Omaha Nebr.
Upon examination, the object was solid and had form of round circular disc, approximately the size of a silver dollar and 1/4" thick, burning with extreme heat.
RECORDED
The World Pecola Newspaper was notified and reporter was sent out. In the mean time, a boy kicked
RECEIVED
JUL 16 12 36 PM '47
INTERNAL SECURITY
F. B. I.
DEPT. OF JUSTICE
The object over and is fell into pieces. When the reporter arrived he scooped up the fragments and said he would have them analyzed. Your attention is directed to attached analysis. There were six people who actually saw the object and can testify to the extreme heat at which it was burning. We did not claim it was one of the so called "flying saucer" or any such phenomena but we did want some kind of a reasonable explanation because of the object had dropped on a busy top, it would have certainly set fire. We can definitely say it
was not Tobacco ashes as
asserted by Dr. Kenny.
It burned with such extreme
heat as to scorch pavement on and
near pavement where it hit
Possibly they could have
been a late Fourth of July
firework or something similar
but at any rate we are calling
it to your attention as The
answer the "learned" Dr. Kenny
gave as being pipe ashes so full
of ridicule an entirely unsatisfactory
Yours sincerely
Fred R. Reibold
2315 Kimesborough Ave
Omaha Nebraska
'Flying Saucer' Just Someone's Pipe Dream'
The "flying saucer" that fell near 2319 Himebaugh Avenue Monday evening was nothing but "ashes from somebody's pipe dream."
So says Dr. C. L. Kenny, head of the chemistry department at the Creighton College of Dentistry. He had two students analyze the ashes. They found sodium, potassium, iron, aluminum, carbonate, sulphate and unburnt carbon, he said.
burnt carbon, he said.
"This is the same analysis you would get from ordinary pipe tobacco," Dr. Kenny said.
62-83894-4
#
ENCLOSURE
Dear Mr. Gover
MONYMOUS COMMUNICATION
G.I.R.-F
I have also seen a flying saucer - the evening of July 4 - about 10:30 PM - only it was in the air at the same level as two obvious portions of light in the search light beams from the air field near Lake St. Clair. I was sitting on my porch at the time. A few trucks could could with proper equipment create the same illusion. There were two clearly outlined beams - one partly faded, out to the left. The saucer was in between.
-appeared in- the
a
third beam faded out from the ground
KHOORD
62-83 89.4-5
to the cancer.
recently I mentioned the
EX-12
FBI
Pacific
34 JUL 9 1947
distressed slu
being due ent
natural phenomena.
58 JUL 221947
and co. orde
tleast alive, the bomb
Mr. J. Edgar Hoover
Washington, D.C.
Personal attention.
This is not a chart.
The image is a rubber stamp imprint from "NEW YORK, N.Y." dated "JUL 11 1947" at "9:30PM".
United States postage stamp.
Value: 3 Cents.
Depicts: Thomas Jefferson.
Postmark: GRAND CENTRAL STATION.
Mr. J. Edgar Hoover, Director
Federal Bureau of Investigation
U.S. Dept. of Justice Bldg.
Washington, D. C.
ANONYMOUS Submission
KEEP ENVELOPE ATTACHED
A/C
9m
July 11, 1947.
Flying Saucers
Dear Sir:
Have you seen one of the mysterious "Saucers"?
What did it look like?
Do you think these strange, celestial manifestations are harbingers of a better day?
G.I.R.-5
Do you believe it means that a new and revolutionary advance is coming?
Will it make your life brighter, happier, more useful?
We believe one of these startling discs is on its way to you. Then the secret will be out.
The Combined and Amalgamated Committee of Sky-Scanners, Disc Decipherers and New-Product Introducers.
RECORDED
62-83894-6
37 JUL 1947
15
51 JUL 21 1947
stap rodded & 20 staggered on exisit
you're all about how you should have, it's all about how you
complex!
atom,teiged,teiged efti zroy efti YII
at no di scad ggiu
We believe our
right to self-determination
F.B.I.
INTERNAL SECURITY
JUL 18 4:03 PM
RECEIVED
25 91-6
Boston Mass,
July 14, '47.
G. I. R. -5
Dear Sir:
May I call your kind attention to the heartless criticism in some papers of people who reported the "flying Saucers," especially in article in the "Boston Globe" recently, by a writer called Kleinen. Also, an
No arre -
no return address
Jefrey Sauer
apology in the Boston Post" this week. This criticism of people who make these reports is very unfair. Everyone from occultists to psychiatrists slammed them, publicly, in articles. It is a poor way to thank people for their efforts. Someday, when some - thing will happen when they are needed, these people probably will not bother Miss C. Finkelstein

STANDARD FORM NO. 64

Office Memorandum

The image contains handwriting that appears to be a signature and a series of numbers, possibly a date or an identifier.
TO: MR. D. M. LADD
DATE: July 7, 1947
FROM : H. B. FLETCHER
Mr. Tolson
 Mr. E. A. Tamm
 Mr. Clegg
 Mr. Glavin
 Mr. Ladd
 Mr. Nicholas
 Mr. Rosen
 Mr. Tracy
 Mr. Carson
 Mr. Egan
 Mr. Gurnea
 Mr. Harbo
 Mr. Hendon
 Mr. Pennington
 Mr. Quinn Tamm
 Tele. Room
 Mr. Nease
 Miss Holmes
 Miss Gandy.
SUBJECT:
✓
At 10:45 a.m., July 7, 1947, I talked to SAC Johnson of the Milwaukee Office concerning the United Press item appearing in the Washington Post for Monday, July 7, with reference to a flying disc or flying saucer allegedly reported to the Milwaukee Office by Reverend Joseph Brasky of St. Joseph's Church, Grafton, Wisconsin.
SAC Johnson advised that the Associated Press and the United Press between the hours 1:00 and 6:00 a.m. today had made inquiry of him as to whether anything had been reported to the Milwaukee Office. He declined to comment. He stated as a matter of fact the priest had not made any contact with him, and he learned from the Associated Press that the priest was intoxicated and as far as the Associated Press was concerned they were not releasing the story because all that was involved was a circular saw. Mr. Johnson stated the Milwaukee Sentinel apparently sent the report out and that they handled United Press service. He stated a photograph of the priest was in this morning's paper holding a circular saw which apparently covers the body of the priest from arm pit to arm pit. Attached to the saw are several wires and two small tubes described as about three inches long and one inch in diameter. The news item in the Milwaukee Sentinel indicates it was believed some prankster had thrown it into the yard, perhaps with a firecracker attached. Mr. Johnson stated the Milwaukee Sentinel had stated the priest would make a report of this matter today to the Milwaukee Office. I instructed SAC Johnson in the event the priest made a report to furnish details of the report immediately, but in view of the nature of the information in his possession, no inquiry should be conducted at the present.
The image contains handwritten text that appears to be a caption or title. It reads "Flying Saucers". There is also a handwritten red mark above and to the right of this text.
HBF: cmw
RESURDED TO & INDEXED
62-83894
FQ JUL 1947
EX-16
HBF FIVE
58 JUL 22,1947 1 S
DATE: July 7, 1947
TO : MR. D. M. LADD
FROM : E. G. FITCH
SUBJECT:
A. Johnson, M.D., and J. A. I. V. M. D. (1951) in "A Manual of the Diseases of the Horse" (1951) stated that "the horse is a very sensitive animal and will show signs of discomfort or pain long before any physical signs are apparent." This statement is still true today.
The typical school day for a student in the district begins at 8:00 a.m. and ends at 3:00 p.m. Students are required to attend school for the entire school year, which runs from August to May. There are typically 180 school days in a year, with a few days off for holidays and teacher planning days. Students are expected to complete their assigned coursework and participate in extracurricular activities, such as sports and clubs. The school district provides a variety of resources to support student learning, including counselors, librarians, and special education services. Parents are encouraged to stay involved in their child's education by attending school events and communicating with teachers.
U.S. DEPT OF JUSTICE
RECEIVED-10/SON
in: NH 60 01
JUL 8 10 09 AM 97
5:48 PM
DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE
RECEIVED-MICHIGAN
U.S. DEPT. OF JUSTICE
DIRECTOR
RECEIVED-TAING
FBI
U.S. DEPT. OF JU
m_91-L
my
DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE
CIVIL AERONAUTICS ADM
7.3.2009
JUL 15 8 44 AM '47
MAIL ROOM-

WASHINGION
RECEIVED
JUL 15 1947
Gentlemen;
I do send to you something new from Texas, Flying of fire circled around the Pa-Cestine and the gree pole. are afraid of hit and eround Circles not far away from you all, fire, down aw
Flying Side
ATTACHED
and leight from
Ireal
gway got in
an anti-Arab enemy or Nazi mob and want ruined the
voxal,
RECORDED
62-83894-9
No ackn.
Apparentl
Not addressed
INDEXED
54
FBI
34 JUL 17 1947
RECEIVED
IL 21 9 42 AM '47
INTERNAL SECURITY
F. B.
DEPT. OF JUST
CAGT 2 [87]
2
They did start in Texark City demech the factory. In the private part of Neosho airprot or dirt road casting Station are such abne my like that, We do not know nor are them. Now got no airoplas here just hangars and Broad casting tower with lichgt on roling toves and lichgt are I like needer to our eyes and got the lichgts around The hole air port and from the lichgts is runig
8
The electrice and
smoke no sick.
And the air is full
of electrice by eich-
driq in run fire
ball from Telegan
box in the store, far
away above hally hill,
The airport is co-
neckted with alamo
Register in San an-
tohio and people are
talking with us
The people are Arbi-
shop, Robert Lucien
leaving in new residen-
ce and is talking with
us. In The Broadcast-
ing Station and
alarm Register fires,
3
4 and with the old arbisnay residence, and with the Cato arale priests.
The alarm Brood casting is agerate with by two german old men, and the men are now sick, are blind from the electric and thy talk with us And ther are two men more and they are fi- tting and fasing together and we can heare them. The arbisn is bad man and immoral, and working nothing, all work is done by the Cathedral Board.
5
In The old arbi-shops residence are some priests. One is name Morkov sky, he is bad man to! He was in care wreck with arbisnys care and his Mother is kiled, and from that time in is lone in the old residence, and talking with us. His brother is priest in Hallettsville and Talking with us too

All the people luck somkind like fresh are no citizen United States, no speak English, they say they are coming from Chechov-lovakia,
6
The Cathedral Board are men ar priests german and they all are working for germany. We got such fresh people we got in Texas and I name the alamo place that is saint sof to - tas people (fifty) againt the mexican Santa Ana.
And I am ending with wafers; Remember Alamo and Texas City.
Mrs. Anna Betsy
Mr. Joe Betsy
MRS. ANNA BENKS
MR. JOE BENKS
6
62-83894-9

D-TIMES

5 CENTS PER COPY. No. 91 PAGE 1
reet Home Boy
Winner In
ssay Contest
he second time in the past
of months a Sweet Home
has brought honor to his
unity by winning literary
holastic acclaim,
ist to achieve himself was
in Anthony Matusek, Yoa-
High School graduate who
a scholarship to A. and M.
ge. Now word reaches us
Dennis Brenek, eleven-year-
son of Mr. and Mrs. Ed.
ek of Sweet Home ,has been
ded a prize of a $25 Savings
l in the KTRH Farm Essay
est.
ennis won sixth place with his
y on the subject "How Radio
Best Serve the Farm and
Farm Home." In commenting
this essay, George Roesner,
H Farm and Ranch Director
Farm and Ranch Director
d: "Your essay contained
v excellant ideas which we
et to use in future farm pro-
nning contests is nothing to Dennis, who, in 1946, won
istered pig with an essay
ed in the Sears-Roebuck con-
Again, in February 1947, he
ed a calf in the Hallettsville
Club Show, and out of 12
s awarded he took fifth
's. Brenek is Sweet Home's mistress.
Growing
Glowing
nateurs' Display
Display
cellent Form
akum softball teams showed of good playing in the games ed at the Bulldog Stadium week.
e teams, organized by var-
merchants and concerns in
1, are composed of members
amateur standing who have
some previous experience with
a-lot or school ball playing. However, some of the players shown such expert ball- lling and sportsmanship that hard to believe they are not
essional out of place. The
chants who organized these
is are certainly doing their
e toward providing recreation
ities for the young people of
community, and are to be
plemented on their fine work.
er merchants or concerns who
to organize a team may
n all the particulars from
h McMaster at the Firestone
y on Lott Street, or from
R. C. McClendon at Lack's
ociate Store on West Grand.
boys or men wishing to play
one of the teams may make
ication at the Firestone Store.
k's, Rohan's Service Station, Hamilton's Jewelry Store, dealing on the player's choice of ham to play with. There is plenty of room for good
ers, so anyone interested is d to contact one of these s.
only one game is definitely duled for next week, and that
Monday night, when The Fire-
e Store will tangle with the
ales Dr. Peppers. Tuesday
t Lack's Associate Store will
, but their opponent has not
named yet. Also, on Thurs-
night the Firestone team will
n play a game, but no team
been stated to oppose them
On Friday night of this week,
ame will be played, but the
games in participate have been listed yet.
ese games will start about each night. Everyone is in-
l to come and cheer for his
. No admission will be charg-
SECURITY MAN
COURT MAN
BE HERE
H. Davis, field representa-
f San Antonio Social Secu-
ffice, will be in Yoakum at
ty Hall at 8:30 a.m., Wed-
, July 23, 1947, for the
FIRST ITS FLYING DISKS - NOW ITS "FIRE BALLS" PEOPLE SEE
A lot of Texans are disk-gusted with the flying saucers, but others are just plain disk-turbed:
Flying balls of fire circled a wide area around Palestine, and some negroes, believing the end of the world was near, began praying. A white man grabbed a rifle and shot at the mysterious objects.
Sheriff Paul Stanford of Anderson County described them as orange basketballs of fire.
Revealing Flying
Disk Data May
Bring Prosecution
Anyone willfully communicating information bearing on the defense or security of the nation—even in time of peace—is subject to a fine of $10,000 and
mprisonment of 10 years, according to Assistant United States District Attorney Joseph W. Cash. If the present mystery of flying disks are connected with radar or guided missile experiments, the law might apply, he said.
The law applies whether the information is released accidentally, "through gross negligence," or "with intent to injure the United States or aid some foreign nation," according to the act.
The Atomic Energy Act of 1946
provides even stricter penalties
or revealing information, Mr.
Cash said. Public Law 585 of the
Seventy-Ninth Congress provides
death or life imprisonment, after
ue process of law, for disclosing
tomic information with intent to
jure the United States.
For accidental disclosures a
ine of up to $20,000 and im-
prisonment up to 20 years are
rovided, Mr. Cash pointed out.
Gas Truck Hits
Local Station
A gasoline trailer truck of the Texas Consolidated Transport Co. ran into a heavy pipe upright in front of Rohan's Service Station Monday, doing some damage to the station and more to the truck.
The truck was coming from town, along West Grand, and turned into the station. As the driver cut the cab back to swing the trailer into position, the cab kidded into the steel pipe roof support on the right of the truck, bending it considerably. The truck itself suffered a bent bumper and a smashed fender. A gasoline pump directly behind the bright was not damaged by the crash.
Lions To Make
The Lions Club has announced that at its regular noon meeting Tuesday, July 15th, it will present to Lee Pargmann of Route the plaque for the Outstanding
farmer for the Middle Guadalupe
asin Soil Conservation District.
The plaque is given each year
the farmer from each conservation district who has contributed
most to the soil conservation
projects in the particular district.
The award is sponsored by a number of organizations, among them the Lions Clubs of the various towns. Since the Lions do play an active part in sponsoring this award, the local club is given the privilege of presenting the plaque
Mr. Pargmann.
Representatives of the Soil Con-
rvation Service will be present
make short congratulatory and
planatory speeches on the giv-
g of the annual award.
urpose of receiving claims and
scussing Old Age and Survivors
urance with all who wish to
contact him.
Davis will not be able to fur-
sh information concerning Old
ge Assistance pensions.
It was the first time the aerial objects were reported in that area. Residents of the Brushy Creek community, 15 miles northeast of Palestine, called Sheriff Stanford about 8:30 last night, saying 12 balls were flying in a straight line over the community. Then, they reported, the balls formed a circle which began mov-
ing toward Palestine.
By 9 p. m. hundreds of Palestine spectators reported seeing as many as three balls in the sky at once, moving in a circle. Sheriff Stanford discounted any suggestion that the balls originated
from a spotlight.
Bud Everett, druggist, chased
them for a better view. He said
they finally disappeared about 11
p. m.
Mrs. Horace Valentine said she saw two perfectly round balls that "nearly scared me to death" when they appeared over her home. She said they seemed to be playing with each other, the
the way they jumped around.
Her husband and Lee Chavers
shot a box of .22 rifle bullets
without any effect on the objects.
Mrs. Valentine said neighboring negro families thought the
world was coming to an end,
and began praying as the balls
of fire gamboled overhead.
Mrs. Lorens Shrader, Big
Springs reported she saw a fiery
red ball streaking overhead last
night.
Mrs. Marian Reed, farm wife,
Mrs. Marian Reed, farm wife, found what she believed was part of a flying disk. It landed in her back yard while she was hanging out the clothes yesterday afternoon. She admitted she was
frightened. She described it as a
round piece of tinfoil eight inch-
es wide, scorched or burned a-
round the edges. Both sides were
shiny, but one side was marked
with black, stenciled lines a quar-
ter-inch apart. She said the tin-
foil dropped straight down from
the sky.
She lifted it with a stick, put it in a tin can, and drove five miles to Gunter, 20 miles south-west of Sherman. Scores crowded about to see it.
At Melissa, Collin County, Mrs. Marie Killian and Mrs. Kay Craft reported seeing a strange object at 8:40 p. m. yesterday.
Charles Calhoun, and his fath-
er, W. J. Calhoun, prominent Grayson County farmers, said they saw a disk yesterday near Sherman.
Cuero Residents
See Flying Disc
Cuero has finally produced its
It was reported by Mrs. F. W. Haak of 410 Stockdale street, and both she and her husband saw it. However, Mrs. Haak's flying disc is no particular mystery to
ter. She thinks she knows just what caused it.
It was simply a reflection from
an airplane, she said.
Sitting on the porch with her husband about 4 p.m. Sunday, Mrs. Haak said she heard a strange noise from the sky, and looked up. Soon an airplane came into view, high in the clouds. It was very small, but plainly dis- cernable as a plane, she said. It
terrible as a plane, she said. It
was coming from the east.
Soon it turned north, and just
after that a perfect disc was vis-
ible some distance from where
the plane disappeared into the
The disc appeared bright and very silvery. It appeared to be smaller in size than an ordinary
maller in size than an ordinary
teering wheel of a car, Mrs.
Haak reported. It seemed to be
'floating' across the heavens.
She called her husband's at
She called her husband's attention to it. They both saw it. After about five seconds the disc was gone. The plane and the
ound disappeared.
Mrs. Haak is convinced the
lying saucer was reflected from
he airplane. This theory also has
een advanced by others.
The flying disc mystery has the nation in a dither with reports coming from all sections on the strange objects. Mrs. Haak's explanation is as reasonable as any yet put forth, and may be the solution to the "phenomenon,"

PAGE TWO
Yoakum

YOAKUM
HERALD - TIMES

Owned by
MALEC PUBLISHING CO.
JOSEPH J. MALE
Editor Manager
Editor-Manager
largest guaranteed circulation of
ny publication in this section.
Gerald Est. 1897
Times Est. 1892
Consolidated Oct. 25, 1943
Subscription Rate: $2.50
Published every Tuesday and Friday morning - 810-812 Lott St.,
Saskatoon, Texas.
Covering: Lavaca and DeWitt Counties.
Intered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Yoakum, Texas, under the Act of March 3, 1897.
WHEN ADVERTISING CIRCULATION COUNTS - TRY THE HERALD-TIMES.

POLITICAL
ANNOUNCEMENTS
For Senator, 18th Dist.
JOHN J. BELL
MORRIS ROBERTS
WE SPECIALIZE
in
Whiskies, Wines
and Gins
R. J. DARLING
PACKAGE STORE
ICICI BANK LIMITED
Chas. Micek
our WATKINS
City Dealer
Phone 599-W
Yet what do you find in this country?"—Even certain church leaders have only praise for the very rule which excludes a Christian, but they condemn their fellow Christians, instead of the Reds.
You will save
by building your
new home of firesafe
CONCRETE
A house of whatever architectural style or floor plan fits your family requirements will have longer life, lower maintenance cost and greater fire-safety if it has concrete walls and subfloors and a firesafe roof. Let us tell you how to get such a house built now using our quality tested concrete block.
F.& M. Concrete Products Yoakum, Texas
516 S. Oakes - Phone 831
DR. C. R. TUBBS
Veterinarian
Large and Small Animals
Office Phone 831
Residence Phone 749-W
Guero - Texas
She'll Never Forget THIS GIFT
62-8384"
John L. Lewis calls the new labor law a "slave law" The big trusts had undoubt-edly the same idea about the anti-trust laws when first introduced. And what are the trusts compared to the harm the unions can do with their strikes?
If the new labor laws are "slave laws", so are the anti-trust laws and any other laws for the protection of people against abuses by any group. So far the people were utterly helpless against the labor power.
A sketch of a couple, a man and a woman, with the woman showing a ring on her finger.
The text advertises "HAMILTON JEWELRY" in Yoakum, offering "QUALITY MERCHANDISE" and "EXPERT WATCH REPAIRING".
See Us For
QUALITY MERCHANDISE
EXPERT WATCH
REPAIRING
HAMILTON
JEWELRY
Yoakum
*  *
Such labor dictators as Lewis, Petrillo, others, have a far greater power to harm this country than the British king ever had. This is just as intolerable today as it was then.
— By W. M. —

BY THE WAY
Last Sunday was, for the British, a national Day of Prayer. The king with Prime Minister Attlee and other government leaders went to St. Paul's Cathedral to pray with the nation for help in these ominous times.
* P *
Not so long ago England went through the most desperate struggle in her whole history. The peace is not yet established and even a greater menace threatens the people of England and elsewhere to whom freedom means so much. In a great danger brave people turn to God.
Here, too many do not fully realize today's danger. We suffered comparatively little and the Red threat seems to be distant. But that does not minimize it. We need to face the menace with the same seriousness the British people with their leaders manifested last Sunday. For, we cannot escape it.
**
It cannot be said anymore that the stories of the "flying disks" is mere fiction. One disk was found by a Pelly man, near Houston. On it was a warning about its military secret and that the Army Air Force at Spokane, Washington be notified at once.
So the mysterious disks are not messengers from Mars or some other star. Nor are they missiles which Red Russia is already showering upon us. They are our own secrets with which our armed forces are experimenting. What propels them? How far can they fly? What is their purpose? —That is a mighty secret.
It is a French paper in Paris that claims that America has a far more destructive bomb than any ever invented before. In one blow it could destroy all of Paris or Moscow. This is also confirmed by Robert M. Hutchins of the University of Chicago, familiar with what goes on here. We can thank only the good Providence that this immense power is in our hands.
*.
Writes John Fisher in his book "Why They Behave Like Russians": "Officially religion is still regarded as a deplorable superstition, and church-goers can never hope to gain admittance to the Communist Party."
**
Horace Wimberly, Jr.
Lawyer
Offices now in
Yoakum National
Bank Building
Phone 50

HOW CAN
Norman Thomas
debate about Russia.
mas questions gave
"I seriously ques
ested in world domina
ing to rehabilitate the
says Wallace, just w
What happened Hungary, and what t country, should be b what the Reds say, 1
"And, once again
ference between the
of Hitler Germany,
in government struc'
What Hitler sto
simple, and far more
age. But when Russia
the same.
As to Russian tac
they don't differ grea
When independence is
and maintained in Gree
ing to Wallace's reason
But since the Reo
mocracy, it's very simp
to suit the purpose. Ev
Moscow's fifth column,
Wallace talks of h
sistance and sincere pl
people." How can Wall
Russia will take :
Wallace is not so politics evidently mean helping to divide America most.

Mont. Man Win
Truck Award
The oldest Chevrolet tr
operation in the United
entered in the recent cor
a 1918 1-ton model. The
truck was built on Octo
1918 in Chevrolet's C
California plant.
The truck is owned and
by Mr. Leslie A. Storey,
Montana; and the entry w
mitted through Pioneer
the Chevrolet dealer in th
which is located in our Sa
City Zone.
The winner's prize of Advance-Design Chevrolet will be presented to Mr. by Chevrolet Motor Divisi More than 6000 Ch trucks were entered from tions of the nation, inc broad public interest. Ent cluded more than 50-1919 still in operation, many en
were manufactured only
months after the winning
The large number of
trucks entered in the seare
emphasizes the quality an
bility of Chevrolet trucks
M
Just
Men
C
YOU
Lava
The
The
MEMBER OF AUDIT BUREAU OF CIRCULATIONS
This Paper Is Connected With NCWC Washington News Headquarters by Direct Leased Wire, Has International News
Daily Wires, Its Own Special Service, Religious News Service, Inter-Catholic Press Agency, Lumen Service
Fides Service, Religious News Photos, International Illustrated News, NCWC Picture Service, Photo Features
The image displays the masthead of "THE ALAMO REGISTER". Above the text, there is a stylized illustration of a building with a flag on top, with dark, angled lines extending outwards on either side, resembling wings or a banner.
6-76888-9
(Name Registered in the U. S. Patent Office)
OCTOBER 4 1946
SECTION TWO
Speaking at Castelgandolfo, his summer home, Pius XII asserted that the world today has men who ignore not only the Church, but the "very rudiments of religion itself;" men who see no evil in evil deeds and lust and would spurn "the primary norms of morals and justice;" "there are cynics who would deride holy things and weak men who would permit these offenses to pass...."

Despite this turmoil, His Holiness said, "there are great rays of hope and fields white with harvest for those who labor to bring Christ to the world." He stressed the oath of the Jesuits, which enables them to bring "a spirit prepared and prompt to obey in all things the true Spouse of Christ ... our holy Mother Church."

In another audience, held for the Most Rev. Emmanuel Suarez, O.P., and the Dominicans who elected
This image is a political cartoon. It depicts Joseph Stalin playing a violin while a baby labeled "WORLD UNREST" cries in a crib. Smoke is rising from Stalin's violin, suggesting a chaotic or destructive performance. The context provided by the surrounding text discusses Pope Pius XII's concerns about moral decay and the indifference to religion in the world. The cartoon likely represents Stalin's actions or policies as contributing to or exacerbating global unrest.
Un ato ver Co Hu lat and for J tioni and voi ma disp ent the ishe slav res dra U. ma Ita

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION
U. S. DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE
COMMUNICATIONS SECTION
D
| Mr. Tolson   |
|-|
| Mr. E. A.    |
| Mr. Clegg.   |
| Glavin       |
| Mr. Ladd     |
| Mr. Nichol   |
| Mr. Rosen    |
| Mr. Tracy    |
| Mr. Egan     |
| Mr. Gurnea   |
| Mr. Harbo    |
| Mr. Mohr     |
| Mr.          |
| Mr. Quinn    |
| Mr. Nease    |
✓
JUL 7 1947
WESTERN UNION
TU
WU17 47/46 2 EXTRA COLLECT
SAN MARCOX TEX JULY 7 1947 714P
FBI
Miss Ganda
coppe
WASHDC
CHECK FILES IN INVENTORS COUNCIL FOR DRAWING OF MULTI-APRING
CATAPULT THIS INVENTION SENT BY ME TO WAR DEPARTMENT IN 1945
POSSIBLE LEAKAGE OF INFORMATION HAS RESULTED MY DEVICE OR
VARIATION THERE FROM COULD CONCIEVABLY CATAPULT A DISC AND IN
SILENCE FOR SEVERAL MILES
RECORDE
62-83894-10
WOODSON C COPE CLIFFSIDE HALL
F H
WOODSON C COPE CLIFFSTI
1945. 7-10-47 Ack
memo-Ltd
wqe
cancelled
941P
37 JUL 16
Ex-74
changes referred per Mr. Harris - 85
1842.
avib
MOODSON C COBE OF ILESIDE HATT
SCIENCE FOR SUSTAINABLE LIFEG
MOLTAIAV YDIALIACIOM LBOOM COIGI CONCIEMAGA C91M
ROTUGAER SANTIGADE 2012
TURAPATI SANTHOSH
NEF:
CHECK FIGES III NILEMJOVS COPIUST LOB BLAINE
JCHSAY
PARET YJUC XET XOCAN MAS
TRUE NORTH S EMBV CORRECT
in
F.B.I. DEPT. OF JUSTICE
JUL 7 10:42 PM '47
RECEIVED TELETYPE UNIT
00
RECEIVED
IL 81
INTERPHAL
SECURITY
RECEIVED

STANDARD FORM NO. 64

Office Memorandum

0
dd <signature>
yne <signature>
TO: D. M. Ladd
DATE: 7-10-47
FROM : J. P. Coyne <signature>
Mr. Tolson: <empty>
Mr. E. A. Tamm: <empty>
Mr. Clegg: <empty>
Mr. Glavin: <empty>
Mr. Ladd: <empty>
Mr. Nichols: <empty>
Mr. Rosen: <empty>
Mr. Tracy: <empty>
Mr. Carson: <empty>
Mr. Egan: <empty>
Mr. Gurnea: <empty>
Mr. Harbo: <empty>
Mr. Mohr: <empty>
Mr. Pennington: <empty>
Mr. Quinn Tamm: <empty>
Tele. Room: <empty>
Mr. Nease: <empty>
Miss Holmes: <empty>
Miss Gandy: <empty>
V-24: <empty>
ged.: <empty>
{"box_2d": [7, 8, 936, 990], "text_content": "SUBJECT:\nWOODSON C COPE\nInformant"}
G. I. R. -5
Flying disc
There is being attached hereto a Western Union telegram received from the above individual in which information is furnished concerning a "disc." This telegram has been acknowledged.

ACTION:
It is recommended that this telegram be turned over to the Liaison Section in order that they may make the information contained therein available to the War Department.
Attachment
J Info Gaduclun
7/14/47 
MI
RECORDED: 62-83894-10
INDEXED: <empty>
FBI: <empty>
102: 37 JUL 16 1947
c: <empty>
EX-74
63 JUL 23 1947
EX-74
WVC :mr.
RECEIVED
JUL 23 9:51 AM '67
INTERNAL SECURITY
F.B.I.
DEPT. OF JUST
Jul. 11 3 24 PM '47
RECEIVED-LADD
FBI

WESTERN UNION

1201

CLASS OF SERVICE
This is a full-rate Telegram or Cablegram unless its deferred character is indicated by a suitable symbol above or preceding the address.
(50)..
SYMBOLS
DL: Day Letter
NL: Night Letter
LC: Deferred Cable
NLT: Cable Night Letter
Ship Radiogram
A. N. WILLIAMS
PRESIDENT
The filing time shown in the date line on telegrams and day letters is STANDARD TIME at point of origin. Time of receipt is STANDARD TIME at point of destination
QA 92
Q•CNA392 PD=DARLINGTON SOCAR 6 630R
1947 JUL 6 PM 6 59
US DEPT OF JUSTICE=
Olgaund Klemensson
=WASHDC=
ABOUT 12 SO-CALL FLYING DISCS PASSED OVER DARLINGTON SC
APPROXIMATELY 5:30 PM TODAY • ADVISE IF WISH DETAILS=
62-83894-1/
ack.
7-10-47
memorandum
wvc
94-16
E8200
FED. BU. OF INV.
RECORDED
F H
7 JUL '16 1947
DEPARTMENT OF JUVENILE
EX-58
JUL 7 1947
Cla
12 5:30 PM.
FED. BU. OF INV.
GUARD ADV HAVE MSG DLVD SA 720P
1/1
RECEIVED
JUL 7 4 57 PM
INTERNAL SECURITY
F. B. I.
DEPT. OF JUSTIC
7 18
1947 JMI
1947 JUL. 6 PM 7 42
FORM NO. 64
No

Office Memorandum
UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

TO: D. M. Ladd
DATE: 7-10-47
FROM: J. P. Coyne
SUBJECT: J. U. XWATTS, JR.
Informant
Flying Disc
- Mr. Tolson:
- Mr. Toison
Mr. E. A. Tamm
M. E. A.
Mr. Clegg
-
- Mr. Glavi
Mr. Ladd
- Mr. Ladd
- Mr. Nichols
- Mr. Rosen
- Mr. Rosen
Mr. Tracy
-
- Mr. Carson
Mr. Fran
- Mr. Egan
- Mr. Gurne
- Mr. Harbo
- Mr. Hallo
Mr. Mohr
- Mr. John
Mr. PennIn
-
- Mr. Quinn T
Tale Room
- Tele. Room
- 10204 Nease
Mr. Nease
- Miss Holmes
- Miss Candy
There is being attached hereto a Western Union telegram received from the above individual in which information is furnished concerning a "disc." This telegram has been acknowledged,
ACTION:
It is recommended that this telegram be turned over to the Liaison Section in order that they may make the information contained therein available to the War Department.
available to the War Department.
ent
Info w/attachment
brugler Dackwer
7/14/47

RECORDED
INDEXED
62-
G. I. R. -5
Attachment
ENC
EX-56
EX-56
T
EX-56
7 1847
WVC:mn
50 JUL 24 1947
EX-56
Jul. 11 3:23 PM '47
RECEIVED-LADD
FBI
DEPT OF JUSTICE
RECEIVED
UL 23 I 39 PM
INTERNAL SECURITY
F. B. I.
DEPT. OF JUST
Jul 11 3:55 PM '47
RECEIVED
FBI

'Saucer' Stories
Disk Found Is
Priest Hears a 'Bang,' Discovers a Circular Blade With Teeth; Other Disks 'Seen'

Picture on Picture Page
The "what is it?" which Father Joseph Brasky said he found early Sunday on the lawn of St. Joseph's Catholic church in Grafton may be just another gadget to add to Father Brasky's already sizable collection.
Those who saw it Sunday said "what is it?" was a circular saw blade with a few wires attached. Father Brasky, who said he knew of no sawmills in the area, would not claim it was a "flying saucer" when he called newspapermen to his home.
"It may or may not be one of those flying disks that have been reported all over the country," he said. "Let's just call it a 'what is it?'"
Meanwhile, in Milwaukee and other points in Wisconsin, several persons reported seeing the "flying saucers." Father Brasky's disk, however, was the only case here in which the "landing" of a "saucer" was reported.

Hears "Bang," Finds Disk
Father Brasky gave the following account of how he found the object, a steel plate 19 inches in diameter, about an eighth of an inch thick and with saw teeth.
I usually get up about 5 a.m. on Sundays. I was at the front door of my house, about to take my dog out for a walk, when I heard a 'bang!' like a big firecracker. I stepped outside and found this disk on the church lawn.
"Although the grass was still wet from the night rain, the disk was too hot to pick up. I noticed the glass ball had been knocked off one of the lightning rods on the church, so I suppose it struck that in landing."

Tries to Call FBI Man
Father Brasky said he did not bother to show the disk to any of his parishioners Sunday. He tried to telephone an FBI agent whom he knows, but was unable to reach him Sunday, he added. Asked whether it could have been the work of a practical joker, Father Brasky replied: "Could be. I don't know."
The disk, apparently of steel, had a one and three-eighth inch hole in the center. Through it ran a few wires. To each end of the cluster of wires was attached what looked like a small condenser about three inches long. The condenserlike objects were wrapped in black tape which still was sticky. The disk was greasy and somewhat dirty. Stamped on it was: "Approved, Dunlap."
Father Brasky declined to part with the disk. He showed a number of items in his trinket collection. All of them had something to do with fishing, Father Brasky's favorite sport. They included his "bass bottles," beer bottles with the head of a fish — and a fish pole from Manila which folds up into a cane. When opened, it extends to 12 feet. "I use it in reaching folks who can't be touched with a 10 foot pole." Father Brasky quipped.

Others Report "Saucers"
Father Brasky also passed out copies of his recent publication, "Fish Tales."
Fish Tales.
"I'm going to revise this thing," he explained. "I've got some new and better tales to put in it."
There were other reports around Milwaukee and Wisconsin of "fly ing saucers." Mrs. Anthony Hoff- man, 3410 W. Layton av., said she and her husband saw one at 8:25 p.m. Sunday flying toward Billy Mitchell field from the northwest. When it neared the field, it veered
toward the south and disappeared, she said. It was flying high and appeared illuminated, according to Mrs. Hoffman.
"It looked like a small meat plat- ter," Mrs. Hoffman asserted.
Glenn Rowden of Detroit claimed he saw a "saucer," about 50 inches in diameter, over Billy Mitchell field at 10:05 p.m. when he alighted from an airplane. He said it was in sight for 90 seconds.
William Humphrey, who lives with his wife in a quonset hut at 3148 S. 20th st., telephoned police at 9 p.m. Sunday that he and Mrs. Humphrey had seen a slightly illuminated disk which appeared to fall to earth near Pulaski high school. Mrs. Humphrey said Monday that her husband tried unsuccessfully to photograph the disk.

Changed Colors, He Says
Erwin Rottman, 1328 N. 19th st., claimed he saw three of them flying through the air in a northwesterly direction at 6 p.m. Sunday. They turned from orange to gold to silver before disappearing, he said.
Reports came also from Janesville, where Mr. and Mrs. Alva Sievert and Mr. and Mrs. Howard Roth reported seeing a flying disk about 11:35 p.m. Saturday. The Roths were leaving the Sievert home when Sievert saw it, according to Roth. It appeared to be several thousand feet up and about 10 miles away.
feet up and about 10 miles away.
Roth said. He described it as vague-
ly resembling the moon and as hav-
ing a regular motion in a counter-
clockwise, elongated orbit. It ap-
peared to Roth to be moving faster
than an airplane. He said it was
yellow on its face, but when it
turned it looked silver.
Roth said that the four of them viewed the disk for 10 minutes.

Stopped in Sky. Claim
"It fluttered around, faded out and came back again, and once it just stopped and hung there for about two minutes," Roth said. "The last time we saw it, it had a very
Turn to page 3, col. 5
ENCLOSURE
RECORDED
62-83894
FBI
4/12
32
JUL 16 1947
60 OCT 1947 273

'Saucer' Tales
Buzz in State
Disk Found by a Priest
Is Circular Saw; Others
Seen by Milwaukeeans
From page 1, column 3
noticeable tail. When it disap-
peared entirely, it just popped out."
Janesville police reported a tele-
phone call from a Dick Thompson,
who said he saw flying disks about
12:15 a.m. Sunday.
At Oshkosh, Mrs. L. A. Davis reported that she and her husband had sighted one of the mysterious disks wizzling over the city at 6:45 p.m. Sunday.
She said they were driving on a town road six miles west of Oshkosh, headed east toward the city, when they first sighted the object "flying very fast and very high."
At first, she said, it looked like an airplane and then loomed larger and larger until it "appeared as big as the sun."

Stops Car, Disk Vanishes
Her husband stopped the car so that they could get a better look at the disk, which appeared round and silvery, but by the time they got out of the car the object had disappeared, she said.
At Green Bay, Eugene Le Plant reported that he and his 12 year old son, Duane, had seen a rapidly moving silver ball or disk about 6:30 p.m. Wednesday while working in his garden on the western edge of the city. Le Plant said he saw the object silhouetted against a dark cloud to the north and that he and his son watched it for three or four minutes while it moved away to the northwest Le Plant said he could not estimate the altitude or distance, but that it "definitely was not an airplane."

Laws of Eyesight Clarify
Reports of Flying Saucers
By HOWARD W. BLAKESLEE
Associated Press Science Editor
New York, N. Y. — The flying saucers may be explained by certain laws of eyesight.
All objects appear round or nearly so at any distance close to the limit of how far a person can see.
If the objects are seen by reflected light, as in most cases reported, they are almost certain to be round, and if the reflections are sunlight then the sizes reported are those which would be expected from distant light reflections.
Descriptions of virtually all the saucers as round and flat fit exactly with the tricks that eyes play. This trickiness varies with differences in weather and lighting.
This writer has seen flying saucers over Long Island sound, not only this year but in previous years. They were round, bright and moving fast. But they were no mystery because they were light reflected from the bodies of airplanes that soon identified themselves by changing course and coming near enough to be seen distinctly.
Many descriptions of movements of the flying saucers fit with the common maneuvers of airplanes, singly or in groups. Some of the maneuvering reported, which took saucers out of sight and back into sight again, resembles what can be seen while watching distant airplanes.
Whether planes are guided, pilotless or jet, they all would look the same at great distances.

Mirages, Traveler Says
Philadelphia, Pa. -(P)- Dr. Aurel
Aczel, editor of a Hungarian lan-
guage newspaper, expressed belief
that the flying saucers were mi-
rages—possibly circularly distort-
ed reflections of real airplanes
many miles away. A world-wide
traveler, Dr. Aczel said:
"Years ago I have seen similar things on the Egyptian desert and on the Buszta (Hungarian plain). At sea I have also seen mirages of ships known to be a great distance away.
"In July and August, and sometimes even in June, atmospheric conditions are especially adaptable to the creation of mirages."
The image shows a man holding a large circular saw blade. A building facade and power lines are visible in the background. The man appears to be examining the saw blade.
BRONX
I 62 - 153874
32 JUL 16

Sharp-Eyed Sight Disks, but Only a Saw Blade Is Found

The image shows a person in a uniform, kneeling and inspecting the underside of what appears to be an aircraft. The person is holding a tool or part in their hand. The context provided, "Sharp-Eyed Sight Disks, but Only a Saw Blade Is Found," suggests a focus on inspection and a discovery.
This image is not a chart. It is a photograph of four individuals, three women and one boy, posed together. The context provided, "JUL 16 17", suggests a date.
JUL 16 1947
Who, what, where, why are flying disks? The year's biggest mystery produced these Sunday photos while reports came from everywhere and everyone that the saucers were everywhere. Top left, a movie camera is fitted to a P-51 fighter plane at Portland, Ore., as Oregon national guard planes are made ready to chase the disks. Lower, Mrs. Walter Johnson (right) of Spokane, Wash., and her children pose and tell how they saw the saucers land on a mountainside in Idaho and
disappear. Right, is Father Joseph Brasky of St. Joseph's Catholic church at Grafton, Wis., with the disk he reported struck his church early Sunday. It turned out that the disk was a prankster made projectile, featuring a Dunlop cir-
cular saw blade. Note that something apparently took a glass ball off one of the lightning rods. A whole lot of Milwaukeeans reported that they saw the saucers traveling past Sunday night.
—AP Wirephotos and Journal Staff

Scen in 36 States;
Jet Fighters
Alerted
SAN FRANCISCO, July 6-(AP)
— Military aircraft hunted the skies over Pacific Coast states today for sight of the mysterious "flying saucers" that for 12 days have puzzled the entire country.
Early reports of results were negative.
Five P-51s of the Oregon National Guard cruised over the Cascade Mountains of Washington—the area where the strange objects first were reported sighted. A sixth circled over Portland, in constant radio contact with the other five. All carried photographic equipment.
Col. G. R. Dodson, command-
ing, described their flight as a
"routine patrol," but said they
had been instructed to watch for
the flying discs.
At Manhattan Beach, Calif., A.
W. McKelvey took a Mustang
fighter plane up above Van Nuys.
For two hours he cruised at 35,
000 feet, but "didn't see a thing."
Gen. Carl Spaatz, commandant of the Army Air Forces, was on a Pacific Northwest fishing trip. He denied knowing anything about the flying discs — or of plans to use AAF planes to look for them.

JET FIGHTER SET
"I've been out of touch with things for four or five days," he said.
Louis E. Starr, national commander-in-chief of the Veterans of Foreign Wars, yesterday in Columbus, O., said he understood Spaatz had a "group out right now" looking for discs.
At Muroc Army Air Field in California a P-80 jet fighter stood ready to take off the moment any flying saucers are sighted in that area.
A cautious attitude marked both official and scientific comments, but Capt. Tom Brown of the Air Forces Public Relations staff in Washington acknowledged the Air Forces had decided "there's something to this" and had been checking up on it for 10 days.

SEEN IN 36 STATES.
First sighted June 25 and greeted generally with scornful laughs, the objects have been reported every day since by observers in 36 states. Most of the objects were reported seen July 4. A few were reported yesterday.
Such competent observers as airline pilots said they had seen the totally unexplained discs or saucers, larger than aircraft and
flying in "loose formation" at high speed.
David Lilienthal, chairman of the Atomic Energy Commission, said they had nothing to do with atomic experiments, and Army and Navy officials also entered positive disclaimers.
Newspaper stories quoting an unidentified California Institute of Technology scientist as saying the phenomena might have something to do with experiments in "transmutation of atomic energy" caused a brief sensation late yesterday. The institute quickly denied the report.
Reports generally agreed that the flying objects were round or oval. Estimates of their speed ranged from about 300 to 1,200 miles an hour. They were described as flying with an undulating motion at heights of 10,000 feet and less. Some described them as glowing, or luminous.

'PROPELLER IN CENTER'
Nova Hart, St. Louis mechanic who was trained during service in the war to spot all types of aircraft, said he saw one of the strang objects near Pattonville yesterday. It was flying at 300 feet, he said.
He described it as circular, with a ribbed framework and silver gray in color. Hart said it appeared to have a motor with a propeller attached in the center and it kept turning like an airplane doing a slow roll.
First, published reports of the phenomenon occurred June 25. Kenneth Arnold, Boise, Ida., businessman pilot, told of seeing nine of the discs flying in formation at 1,200 miles an hour over the Cascade Mountains in Washington.

SEEN BY 200
Arnold's account was taken lightly. Various explanations were offered—"reflections," "persistent vision," "snow blindness." Soon after ward other individuals—in New Mexico, Missouri, California and other states—reported they also had seen the flying objects.
Then on Independence Day 200 persons in one group and 60 in another saw them in Idaho. Hundreds of others in Oregon, Washington and other western states reported seeing them.
July 4 also brought first reports of the flying discs from east of the Mississippi. Since then they have been reported seen in widely separated sections of the country—in 33 states in all.

'Must Be Insane'
LONDON, July 6-(P)-Don't mention those flying saucers on this side of the Atlantic unless you're prepared for an argument about your sanity.
Maybe they have been seen by sober citizens over a vast area of the United States, but Europe won't believe in them until somebody lassoes one and has it photographed by Frank Sinatra, the British ambassador and five Supreme Court justices.
Supreme Court justice.
"America's reply to the Loch Ness monster," chortled today's Sunday dispatch, referring to Britain's hoariest tall story—the serpent that is "seen" romping in Scotland's Loch Ness every time the tourist trade needs a shot in the arm.
ENCLOSURE
62-83894
RECORDED
Exp 4/2
MILWAUKEE SENTINEL
MILWAUKEE, WISCONSIN
60 OCT 1-1947 2/2

Planes Chasing Disks
Find Only Empty Sky

Jokesters Add
Some Comedy
to Air Mystery
East St. Louis Objects Prove to Be Washers; Chicago Woman Spots One With Legs
By the United Press
Army pilots were ready Monday for another air search for the mysterious "flying saucers" now reported seen in 39 states and parts of Canada as practical jokesters added to the confusion.
Equipped with telescopic cameras, 11 army planes searched the Pacific northwest Sunday without finding any trace of the flying disks which had been reported over scores of communities the preceding two days. At Sioux Falls, S. D., a national guard plane already in the air was ordered to investigate a silvery disk with a short tail which Gregory Zimmer said he saw shoot across the heavens. The pilot found nothing but empty sky.
The army "camera patrol" over the Cascade mountains Sunday included eight P-51 pursuit ships and three A-26 bombers.

Illusions Or Jokes
There was growing belief that the concentrated aerial search would show the saucers to be optical illusions or the work of practical jokesters magnified by aroused imaginations.
A number of "disks" whirled over rooftops in East St. Louis, Ill., Sunday. J. T. Hartley, a locomotive engineer, gathered some of them up and found they were made of pressed white paper, 11 inches in diameter and with a two inch hole in the center. Railroad workers said they looked like locomotive packing washers.
A radio announcement that disks were flying over Lewiston, Idaho, Sunday sent hundreds into their yards for a look. Weatherman Louis Krezak said the objects were moving eastward with the prevailing wind and probably were weed seeds. Three air transport pilots agreed.

Searchlights on Clouds
A Birmingham radio station was
one hour by persons who said they saw fluorescent balls circling over the city and clearly outlined against near-by mountains. A carnival at Alabaster, Ala., was playing searchlights on cloud wisps.
An argument raged at Lodi, Calif.
over the cause of a spectacular glow
in the sky and a roar shortly before
electrical power went off. Mrs. W.
C. Smith said she heard a noise "like

Give 'Em Room
Newport News, Va.—Peninsula airport here is taking no chances with flying saucers. Pilots reporting Monday to take out planes found this notice on the bulletin board: "Two thousand feet vertical and horizontal clearance required between aircraft operating from this field and any flying saucers."
a four motored bomber" just before the lights went off at dawn. Erving Newcomb of the Pacific Gas & Electric Co. offered the explanation that a low flying crop dusting plane probably had struck a power line and burned out a transformer. However, no planes were reported damaged and no one could explain
what a crop dusting plane was do-
ing in the air at dawn on Sunday.
It was the first time any noise had
been attributed to flying saucers.
J. U. Watts, jr., Darlington (S. C.) attorney, said he saw an army pursuit plane chasing a V-formation of flying saucers at 250 miles an hour 3,000 feet high. However, no pilot reported such a chase.

Saw One With Legs
Meanwhile, authorities were plagued with reports that bordered on the fantastic. An excited Chicago woman reported that she had seen a flying saucer with legs. "I was standing on my porch and I thought for sure it was coming right down and slap me in the face," she said.
George Kuger of Denver said he saw a flying disk with an American flag on it.
Francis Howell, Tempe, Ariz., claimed he saw a saucer two feet in diameter disappear behind a row of trees near his home. When he rushed to inspect it, he said, the flat, thin, aluminumlike disk took off at a "high rate of speed" toward Phoenix, nine miles away.
Mrs. Walter Johnson returned to Spokane, Wash., after a vacation near St. Maries, Idaho, and after reading newspaper reports of the flying saucers said she and several others had seen speeding shiny objects "as big as a four or five room house" disappear into the forest covered mountains.
The first of the saucers over New
York State was reported by Mrs.
Kenneth Wohley of Rochester, N.
Y., who said she and her husband
saw an object "about the size of an
ordinary saucer" flying above her
back yard at 8:30 p.m. Sunday.
ENCLOSURE
RECORDED

MILWAUKEE JOURNAL
MILWAUKEE, WISCONSIN
62-83894-13
7/7/47
Ex12
F B I
32 JUL 16 1971

60 OCT 1-1947
New Jersey residents said they "thought" they saw flying disks over Palisades Park and near-by Bergenfield Sunday night.
Skeptical scientists recalled the mysterious "rockets" seen over Sweden last year. Eighty per cent of the "ghost rockets" proved to be meteors, and Swedish officials said the others could be discounted as pure imagination.
Scientists asserted that the objects in order to be seen clearly at 10,000 feet—the level at which most of the saucers have been reported—would have to be 20 feet in diameter, would require a large mass of metal, would be more conspicuous at night and would be seen by a far greater number of persons.
Dr. J. S. Nassau, director of the Warner & Swasey observatory at
the Case Institute of Technology at Cleveland, said he was inclined to "think the reports are fancies."
Capt. Tom Brown, army air force spokesman at Washington, said the army was trying to run the reports to earth.
"We're not dismissing the possibility that there's something to it," he said, "and we're not dismissing the possibility that it's all a hoax."

U. S. Planes Hunting Discs;
Russ Tells of 'Atom Saucers'

FBI Probes Story
of Soviet Ship
Officer
LOS ANGELES, July 6—(Special)—Federal agents today investigated a letter to the Examiner describing Russian supersonic atom-powered planes resembling the "flying saucers."
A top flight atomic scientist to whom the Examiner referred the letter said it was "not all nonsense," and suggested the matter be turned over to the FBI.
The letter writer said he got the information from an officer aboard a Russian tanker recently in Los Angeles harbor.

KILLED EVEN WORMS
The Russian, he said, also described experiments with controlled radioactive clouds in the Arctic, where birds, animals and even worms were killed.
The planes, as described by the Russian to the writer, are only 18 inches thick, with a kidneyshaped outline and no propellers.
The pilot lies on his stomach and is artificially cooled against the heat developed by air friction.
"The outer surface is highly polished," the Russian said. Both upper and lower surfaces are convex, like a giant lens. The lifting force is an entirely different principle found about 10 years ago among unpublished papers of a Russian chemist.
"Energy is required only for climbing, but no energy is needed for support when the airplane goes along the earth's gravitational contour lines."
The writer of the strange letter said he met the Russian officer in Wilmington and, because he wanted to hear about Russia, invited him to dinner.
The Russian first asked where he could sell 18 polar bear pelts which he received "for very dangerous work."
He said he had been assigned to go over the route of the radioactive cloud near Lake Bakal (or Baykal) and pick up dead animals.

ALL LIFE DESTROYED
"They loaded a few small ships with all kinds of animals and directed the cloud over them," the writer said.
"During this experiment, a violent storm blew the cloud far north into the tundra, but before it dissipated it destroyed all life on its way.
"The cloud may be controlled from land, from a plane or from a robot-piloted 'leader.' As I understand it, the control is based on electro-magnetic waves and the cloud has two components: The carrier and the killer."
ENCLOSURE
RECORDED
162-83894-13
F B I
Ex 42
32 JUL 16 1947
Milwaukee Sentinel
Milwaukee, Wis
J. 7 1947
60 OCT 1- 1947

Quirks of Eyesight May
Explain Disc Mystery

By HOWARD BLAKESLEE
AP Science Editor
NEW YORK, July 6-(P)-Certain laws of human eyesight will explain much of what has been described about the flying saucers reported from nearly all parts of the United States.
At any distance which is close to the limit of how far a person can see, all objects appear round or nearly so. This law of sight covers both small things seen nearby and large ones at great distances.
Regardless of shape, the object near the limit of sight looks round. If the thing is silhouetted against a bright sky, as some of the flying saucers have been reported, then it is more likely to reveal its true shape.

HAVE 'NO STRUCTURE'
If the thing is seen by reflected light, as in most cases reported, it is almost certain to be round, and if the reflections are sunlight, then the sizes reported are those which would be expected from distant light reflections.
The one outstanding fact about virtually all the saucers is that they had no structure—they seemed merely round and flat. That description fits exactly with the tricks that eyes play. This trickness varies with differences in weather and lighting.
This writer has seen flying saucers over Long Island Sound near his home, not only this year but in previous years. They were round, bright and moving fast.

NOT A MYSTERY
But they were no mystery because they were light reflected from the bodies of airplanes that soon identified themselves by changing course and coming near enough to be seen distinctly.
Last week this writer also saw
one oval flying form which for
a moment looked exactly like the
photograph of the oval object taken by Yeoman Frank Ryman north of Seattle, Wash. The Long Island oval came closer and turned into an airplane.
Planes at great distances tend to look round when light is reflected from their sides. Many descriptions of movements of the flying saucers fit with the common maneuvers of airplanes, singly or in groups.
They fit also with what birds look like, flying at a considerable distance. However the bird Illusion is not very common. Some of the maneuvering reported, which took saucers out of sight and back into sight again resembles what can be seen while watching distance airplanes.

SPEED MYSTERY
There is no explanation for reported speeds of 1,000 or more miles an hour. Meteors, although they go much faster than that, do not explain it because the saucers mostly appear in daytime and there are not enough daylight meteors.
Ice crystals forming little round clouds have been suggested. But these fail to fit in most cases because the ice crystals form at altitudes which are higher than most of the saucers reported.
Nothing published in science or atomic studies gives the slightest clue to flying saucers unless the
One scientist today said that at least a lot of saucers are explained by the force of suggestion which causes a person to say to himself:
"Oh, gee, I see it too."
ENCLOSURE
T 62-83894-13
FBI
32 JUL 16 1947
RECORDED
60 OCT 1 - 1947 203

'Saucers' Fly Here; Grafton Disc Joke

This is not a chart.

Key information:
- **Entity:** Father Joseph Brasky, pastor of St. Joseph's Church, Grafton.
- **Object:** A circular saw with two small tubes and several wires attached, mistaken for a "flying disc".
- **Event:** The "disc" reportedly struck a lightning rod on the church.
What was reported as a "flying disc" which struck a church in Grafton early yesterday turned out to be a circular saw with two small tubes and several wires attached to it. Father Joseph Brasky, pastor of St. Joseph's Church, Grafton, holds the "disc" and points to the lightning rod on the church (arrow), which he said was struck by the disc. Sentinel Photo by Ernest Anheuser.
The mystery of the "flying discs," strange luminous objects seen speeding across the sky in many states, turned to Wisconsin yesterday when several persons reported them at Milwaukee and Janesville.
Mystery was added to mystery when Father Joseph Brasky, pastor of St. Joseph's Church at Grafton, Wis., reported a missile hurtled through the air early yesterday, knocked the ball off the church lightning rod, and landed on the front lawn.

WIRES AND TUBES
It was a large circular saw-about 16 inches in diameter-and still hot when Father Brasky picked it from the lawn.
There were wires and two tubes attached to it. The tubes were an inch in diameter and three inches long.
One theory was that pranksters belated Fourth of July cele-ants had attached explosives to e saw, and sent it skimming rough the air.
Father Brasky said he heard a
swishing noise and a sizzling at
5 a. m., followed a second later
with a thud and an explosion.
An excited resident telephoned to Billy Mitchell Field, and said he saw 15 flying saucers, in U formation, heading north over Granville, at 10:05 p. m. He hung up before his name could be pro cured.
A passenger aboard a New York-Detroit-Milwaukee plane, which landed at Billy Mitchell Field at 10:05 p. m., told employees in the office of Northwest Airlines, Inc., he saw a flying saucer bobbing up and down over the airfield just after he had alighted from the plane.
Other passengers with him also saw it, he said. He gave the name of J. W. Rowden of Detroit. Despite its bobbing, the saucer was going at great speed, and was out of sight in a few seconds, he said. Rowden is stopping at the Plaza Hotel.

DISCS HAD TAILS
Erwin Rottman, 1328 N. 19th St., said he saw three of them, with tails, flying northwest to southeast, as he stood at N. 18th and W. Vliet Sts. They turned from gold to another color and then to silver, he said.
Frank Phifer, stopping at the Maryland Hotel, said he saw three balls of fire shoot across Lake Michigan at 8:20 last night, about a mile from shore, and
"going at terrific speed."
What he described as an illuminated saucer was seen last night by William Humphrey, 3148 S. 20th St., he said. It was zigzagging directly over the Heil Co. plant, said Humphrey, and seemed to land in a wooded area nearby.

REPORTED IN JANESVILLE
Four Janesville residents reported they had seen a flying disc Saturday night. They are Mr. and Mrs. Al Sievert and Mr. and Mrs. Howard Roth.
They saw the disc flying in a northwesterly direction from Janesville at a "terrific speed." They viewed it for 20 minutes. It was yellow-golden, and seemed to turn at times to a silvery color, they stated. An oval flight pattern was followed. Then, they said, tails appeared on the disc and shortly after wards it disappeared.
John Bosch, 4377 S. Adams St., Milwaukee, a machinist, insisted he saw two flashing saucer-shaped objects pass over Billy Mitchell Field shortly after midnight yesterday. They were close enough so he could definitely state they were not shooting stars, nor airplanes, he said. Bosch's home is near the airport.
ENCLOSURE
62-83894-13
32 JUL 16 1947
ANONYMOUS COMMUNICATION
HA! HA!
WINCHELL
HAS REVEALED
THE "SAUCER"
SECRET.
YOU CANT
HIDE ANYTHING
FROM US &
OUR AGENTS
LICE WINCHELL
COMMUNIST
Flying device
RECORDED
62-83894-
FBI
37 JUL 16 1947
EX-56
FIVE 98
Ann
Mo
4-
Anonymus
Msc. P.
166
RECEIVED
Jul 23 4:57 PM '07
INTERNAL SECURITY
F.B.I.
DEPT. OF JUST

STANDARD FORM NO. 64

Office Memorandum
UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

TO : DIRECTOR, FBI
FROM : <signature> SAC, MILWAUKEE
DATE: July 8, 1947
SUBJECT: FLYING DISCS OR SAUCERS
MISCELLANEOUS
TELEPHONE CALL FROM MR. FLETCHER
AT THE BUREAU AT 8:30 AM, 7/7/47
ATTENTION: MR. H. FLETCHER
Copies
Attached are newspaper clippings from the Milwaukee Sentinel and Milwaukee Journal of July 7, 1947.
For the Bureau's information, United Press and Associated Press telephoned me at my residence about three or four times between 1:00 A.M. and 2:30 A.M., July 7, 1947. The United Press representative informed me that Father JOSEPH BRASKY had stated on interview by a Milwaukee Sentinel reporter, one BILL WEEKS, (Phonetic) that he, Father BRASKY, was going to call the FBI concerning the contraption, which apparently was identical with one of the flying discs recently publicized throughout the country. The United Press representative desired to know if we had any statement to make on the matter. I informed him that I had no official comment, other than "No Comment."
Since I have contacted the United Press representative on various occasions, I asked him what the actual details were, and he stated he did not know except that the interview of the priest reflected that a circular saw had been found with some devices attached to it.
The Associated Press called me shortly after the United Press representative did, and on being advised that I had no comment to make concerning the story, I asked the Associated Press representative what the actual facts were, and he informed me that as far as the Associated Press was concerned, the facts were that a circular saw had been found and a story had been obtained from a priest who had been drinking quite heavily. The Associated Press representative informed me that apparently the United Press desired to get a statement from me denying or affirming that the FBI was investigating the matter. I informed the Associated Press representative that apparently someone was suffering under a misinterpretation of any comment I had made, and possibly some reporter was in an embarrassing position if a story had gone out over the wire services. 62-83894-13
6ENCL
I then telephoned the United Press representative, who apparently in the meantime had been called by the Associated Press in an effort to straighten out the United Press. No reference was made to the FBI in the Milwaukee Sentinel article appearing July 7, 1947, but the Milwaukee Journal article, which is attached, referred to an alleged statement by Father BRASKY that he attempted to get in touch with an FBI Agent whom he knows. Father BRASKY has never contacted the Milwaukee FBI Office or any Agent concerning his find.
my opinion, this is just another hoax story, since a photograph of Father BRASKY with the saw indicates no basis for any investigation by any authority.
62-0
Enclosures

Office Memorandum
DATE: July 8, 1947
TO: DIRECTOR, FBI
FROM: SAC, MILWAUKEE
SUBJECT: FLYING DISCS OR SAUCERS
ATTENTION: D. M. LADD
MISCELLANEOUS
TELEPHONE CALL FROM MR. FLETCHER
AT THE BUREAU AT 8:30 AM, 7-8-47
soil erosion and sediment control
I, , registered no claim of homestead was held or if any was held on the 10 acres of land now known as 10 acres of land on the west side of the road between the old school house and the old church on the north side of the road between the old school house and the old church on the north side of the road between the old school house and the old church on the north side of the road between the old school house and the old church on the north side of the road between the old school house and the old church on the north side of the road between the old school house and the old church on the north side of the road between the old school house and the old church on the north side of the road between the old school house and the old church on the north side of the road between the old school house and the old church on the north side of the road between the old school house and the old church on the north side of the road between the old school house and the old church on the north side of the road between the old school house and the old church on the north side of the road between the old school house and the old church on the north side of the road between the old school house and the old church on the north side of the road between the old school house and the old church on the north side of the road between the old school house and the old church on the north side of the road between the old school house and the old church on the north side of the road between the old school house and the old church on the north side of the road between the old school house and the old church on the north side of the road between the old school house and the old church on the north side of the road between the old school house and the old church on the north side of the road between the old school house and the old church on the north side of the road between the old school house and the old church on the north side of the road between the old school house and the old church on the north side of the road between the old school house and the old church on the north side of the road between the old school house and the old church on the north side of the road between the old school house and the old church on the north side of the road between the old school house and the old church on the north side of the road between the old school house and the old church on the north side of the road between the old school house and
no orindreser ser bedriftsøkonomi over I siste 3 år. Selve bedriften har vært i drift siden 1990 og har hatt en kontinuerlig vekst. Bedriften har vært i drift i 1990 og har hatt en kontinuerlig vekst. Bedriften har vært i drift i 1990 og har hatt en kontinuerlig vekst. Bedriften har vært i drift i 1990 og har hatt en kontinuerlig vekst. Bedriften har vært i drift i 1990 og har hatt en kontinuerlig vekst. Bedriften har vært i drift i 1990 og har hatt en kontinuerlig vekst. Bedriften har vært i drift i 1990 og har hatt en kontinuerlig vekst. Bedriften har vært i drift i 1990 og har hatt en kontinuerlig vekst. Bedriften har vært i drift i 1990 og har hatt en kontinuerlig vekst. Bedriften har vært i drift i 1990 og har hatt en kontinuerlig vekst. Bedriften har vært i drift i 1990 og har hatt en kontinuerlig vekst. Bedriften har vært i drift i 1990 og har hatt en kontinuerlig vekst. Bedriften har vært i drift i 1990 og har hatt en kontinuerlig vekst. Bedriften har vært i drift i 1990 og har hatt en kontinuerlig vekst. Bedriften har vært i drift i 1990 og har hatt en kontinuerlig vekst. Bedriften har vært i drift i 1990 og har hatt en kontinuerlig vekst. Bedriften har vært i drift i 1990 og har hatt en kontinuerlig vekst. Bedriften har vært i drift i 1990 og har hatt en kontinuerlig vekst. Bedriften
SUBJECT OF JUSTICE
- **Entity:** BI
- **Type:** Stamp
- **Content:**
    - Received-Labor
    - FI. 851
    - 10:46 AM
    - 12/73
    - TECHNICAL LABORATORY
    - 05. ISTIPE
and over the whole
p
a
our school's
The image contains stamps and text that appear to be from official documents. Key visible elements include:

*   "REGISTRY"
*   "SECURITY"
*   "LABORATORY DIVISION"
*   "JUSTICE"
*   "OFFICE"
to m3-ni:
This image is not a chart. It is a document with stamps.

Key information extracted:

*   **Stamp 1:** "S. DEPT. OF JUSTICE 08" (appears to be a date stamp with "2008" possibly partially obscured)
*   **Stamp 2:** "LIAISON SECTION RECEIVED 14 3 57 PM" (indicates a received time and date, likely April 14th, 3:57 PM)
rolex,berdutta
2021
Woodstock, IL, JUL 7, 7 AM, 1947
Image is a postage stamp.

Key Information:
*   **Country:** United States
*   **Denomination:** 3 Cents
*   **Image:** Thomas Jefferson (1743-1826)
*   **Color:** Purple
*   **Type:** Postage Stamp
Mr. Edgar Hoover.
J.B.D.
Washington, D.C.

PHONE 636 BOOTH PHONE 814
Located IN Business DISTRICT
BUSINESS DISTRICT

HOTEL WOODSTOCK

Klaus
J.-Zimmermann

WOODSTOCK, ILLINOIS
COMMUNICATIONS
KEEP ENVELOPE ATTACHED
G. I. R. -5
A reaction - one-upmercer-7y
Mr Hoover: Flying Lancers
on today page, see more.
ews concerning out those one without a double from Russia.
see they are likely checking how completely they
ar over the U.S. in Polot. - I feel it
wrong forest report zero in which
they one been. Intruding fool by a spiritislet
wo sent none what she was - I talked to obtain
much information as I could - I become interested
how she said - Russia has a poison which she will
use in an atom bomb that will destroy not
me at but does not
the flying saucer
perfected a device w
country in one
reported in m
&
as - to whom I need to
ider if Russia hoard
62 = 83894 - 14
ight destroy our whole
F B I
14 1947
ih. Dr. Newbold
your cover - We are looking to get
them-tol information-
How this woman may only be guessing but it should not be proved up - The more she goes the
MRS. MAE NASS
Mrs. Mae Nass, 811 E. Stole St
Milwaukee, Wis. (M. Phone
Daily 3136
Why do we wait till we are destroyed or nearly so before we act - if we are all ready in 3 seconds the hell with and all - Doesn't see ice ready in there latest event -

Below was dept. take notice - Ostratine & sleep - We should recently draft men - how all over gunner set for a moment notice - We must be ready. But can we afford & wooly Russia slow destroying us in one shot? Why not let her howl it and howl it in big dose final - That the only way I can see no coming out of it all.
2.
PHONE 636 BOOTH PH 814
Located In Business District

HOTEL WOODSTOCK

WOODSTOCK, ILLINOIS
RECEIVED
ATOMIC ENERGY SECTION
JUL 22 3 14 PM '47
F.B.I.
U. S. DEPT. OF JUSTICE
RECEIVED
JUL 23 10
INTERNAL SECURITY
F.B.I.
DEPT. OF JUS
MOODLOCK

STANDARD FORM NO. 64

Office Memorandum

TO : D.M.LADD <signature>
FROM : K.C.Howe
SUBJECT: Flying Discs
DATE: July 11, 1947
Mr. Tolson
Mr. E. A. Tamm
Mr. Clegg
Mr. Glavin
Mr. Ladd
Mr. Nichols
Mr. Rosen
Mr. Tracy
Mr. Carson
Mr. Egan
Mr. Gurnea
Mr. Harbo
Mr. Mohr
Mr. Pennington
Mr. Quinn Tamm
Tele. Room
Mr. Nease
Miss Holmes
Miss Gandy
At 10:45 PM on the evening of July 11, 1947, Clerk Piercy of the Washington Field Office called and stated that at the instbuction Mr. Hennrich he wanted to pass on to the Bureau information he had just received from one Alvin B. Parker, 200 6th Street, Laurel, Maryland, to the effect that a "flying disc" had just landed in Parker's yard "and the machinery is still buzzing." Piercy stated Parker was apparently so excited he had a difficult time even getting his name out, and no further detail could be obtained from him.
At 10:50 PM I passed the above information on to Captain West, duty officer at G-2 who indicated he had also received the same data from another source, and would pass our information along to appropriate army quarters.
Sid Roberts of the AP called at about 10:55 PM and asked whether the Bureau had received any report on a "flying disc" in Laurel Maryland. After checking with Mr. Nichols I told him we had received such a report and had passed it on to army authorities.
KCH:H
RECORDED & INDEXED: 62-83894-15
FBI
EX-16
36 JUL 16 1947
57 JUL 24 1947

STANDARD FORM NO. 64

Office Memorandum
UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

TO : MR. E. A. TAMM
DATE: July 11, 1947
Mr. Tolson: 
Mr. E. A. Tamm: 
Mr. Clegg: 
Mr. Glavin: 
Mr. Ladd: 
Mr. Nichols: 
Mr. Rosen: 
Mr. Tracy: 
Mr. Carson: 
Mr. Egan: 
Mr. Gurnea: 
Mr. Harbo: 
Mr. Hendon: 
Mr. Pennington: 
Mr. Quinn Tamm: 
Tele. Room: 
Mr. Nease: 
Miss Holmes: 
Miss Gandy:
FROM : D. M. LADD
SUBJECT: <signature>
SAC Johnson of the Milwaukee Office called to advise he had just received a telephone call from Colonel Harry Schafer, Reserve Officer with the Civilian Air Patrol, Black River Falls, Wisconsin. Colonel Schafer reported that at 3:30 p.m., July 10, one Sig Hanson, City Engineer at Black River Falls, Wisconsin, had found a large 17" disc which appeared to have been possibly made out of cardboard painted with silver airplane dope. In the center was a tube and a small motor with a propellor attached to the side. Colonel Schafer expressed the opinion that this disc would not be able to fly by itself. He advised it would be taken to the Air Corps Headquarters. Colonel Schafer advised, however, that Hanson did not want to release the disc without FBI approval.
I instructed Mr. Johnson to advise the Air Corps officer to get in touch with Colonel Schafer and tell him he saw no reason for the Bureau to attempt to secure the release of the material since it was not in our custody and we had no control. He stated the press was also calling concerning this matter. I instructed him to make no comment to the press.
G.I.R.5
DML: cmw
a
① Flying alone
RECORDED
162-8389-16
FBI
37 JUL 17 1947
EX-56
34
57 JUL 24 1947

STANDARD FORM NO. 64

Office Memorandum

0
m
TO: MR. LADD
27
LFFEE, 18/5
DATE: July 12, 1
tr. Tolson
tr. E. A. Tamm
tr. Clegg
tr. Olavin
tr. Ladd
tr. Nichols
tr. Rosen
tr. Tracy
tr. Carson
tr. Egan
tr. Gurnea
tr. Harbo
tr. Hendon
tr. Pennington
tr. Quinn Tamm
ele. Room
tr. Nease
tr. Miss Holmes
FROM : F. P. GRIFFITH
SUBJECT: FLYING DISCS
Reference is made to Mr. Howe's memorandum to you dated July 11, in the above-captioned matter.
At 11:55 P.M., July 11, I took a phone call from Sergeant Lonis of the Laurel, Maryland, Police Department.
Miss Gandy
ant
Lonis said that he had examined the "flying disc." He said that it had been made from a Gulf Oil sign and the top of a garbage can and had been painted with aluminum paint. It had been recently painted because the paint was still wet. Attached to it were a dry cell battery, a flashlight bulb, some wires and a buzzer. He asked if the Bureau was sending anyone out to look at it. I told him that we were not, that we had referred the matter to the Army, and suggested that he call them.
I subsequently telephoned Captain Calvert, the Du Officer at G-2, and passed on to him the information furnis Sergeant Lonis.
ity
hed by
G.I.R. 5
FPG: jc
RECORDED
62-83894-17
FBI
36 JUL 17 1947
EX-56
RECEIVED
BEIJING
53 3x1
57JUL24 1947
RECEIVED
UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT
MOM
Reference is made to Mr. Howard's memorandum dated July 11, in the above-entitled matter.
I was not at all surprised to find that the police had been searching for me. I had been in the hospital for two days, and I had been told that the police were looking for me. I had been in the hospital for two days, and I had been told that the police were looking for me. I had been in the hospital for two days, and I had been told that the police were looking for me. I had been in the hospital for two days, and I had been told that the police were looking for me. I had been in the hospital for two days, and I had been told that the police were looking for me. I had been in the hospital for two days, and I had been told that the police were looking for me. I had been in the hospital for two days, and I had been told that the police were looking for me. I had been in the hospital for two days, and I had been told that the police were looking for me. I had been in the hospital for two days, and I had been told that the police were looking for me. I had been in the hospital for two days, and I had been told that the police were looking for me. I had been in the hospital for two days, and I had been told that the police were looking for me. I had been in the hospital for two days, and I had been told that the police were looking for me. I had been in the hospital for two days, and I had been told that the police were looking for me. I had been in the hospital for two days, and I had been told that the police were looking for me. I had been in the hospital for two days, and I had been told that the police were looking for me. I had been in the hospital for two days, and I had been told that the police were looking for me. I had been in the hospital for two days, and I had been told that the police were looking for me. I had been in the hospital for two days, and I had been told that the police were looking for me. I had been in the hospital for two days, and I had been told that the police were looking for me. I had been in the hospital for two days, and I had been told that the police were looking for me. I had been in the hospital for two days, and I had been told that the police were looking for me. I had been in the hospital for two days, and I
Officer of the Court and presiding Judge of the District of Columbia.
FBI DEPT. OF JUSTICE
Ch. MV 60 01 h1 7/1
DEPT. OF JUSTICE
F.B.I.
INTERNAL SECURITY
UL 23 31 PM 1/7
RECEIVED
LIASON SECTION
RECEIVED
ok
SOCIAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION
U.S. DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE
COMMUNICATIONS SECTION
JUL
PM
T
NOBODYTYPE
FBI DALLAS
7-8-47
6-17 PM
<table></table>
DIRECTOR AND SAC, CINCINNATI
URGENT
FLYING DISC, INFORMATION CONCERNING.
MAJOR CURTAN, HEADQUARTERS
EIGHTH AIR FORCE, TELEPHONICALLY ADVISED THIS OFFICE THAT AN OBJECT
PURPORTING TO BE A FLYING DISC WAS RE COVERED NEAR ROSWELL, NEW
MEXICO, THIS DATE. THE DISC IS HEXAGONAL IN SHAPE AND WAS SUSPENDED FROM A BALLON BY CABLE, WHICH BALLON WAS APPROXIMATELY TWENTY
FEET IN DIAMETER. MAJOR CURTAN FURTHER ADVISED THAT THE OBJECT
FOUND RESEMBLES A HIGH ALTITUDE WEATHER BALLOON WITH A RADAR
REFLECTOR, BUT THAT TELEPHONIC CONVERSATION BETWEEN THEIR OFFICE
AND WRIGHT FIELD HAD NOT BORNE OUT THIS BELIEF. DISC AND
BALLOON BEING TRANSPORTED TO WRIGHT FIELD BY SPECIAL PLANE FOR EXAMINATIO
INFORMATION PROVIDED THIS OFFICE BECAUSE OF NATIONAL INTEREST IN CASE
AND FACT THAT NATIONAL BROADCASTING COMPANY, ASSOCIATED PRESS, AND OTHERS ATTEMPTING TO BREAK STORY OF LOCATION OF DISC TODAY. MAJOR
CURTAN ADVISED WOULD REQUEST WRIGHT FIELD TO ADVISE CINCINNATI
OFFICE RESULTS OF EXAMINATION. NO FURTHER INVESTIGATION BEING
CONDUCTED.
END
WYLY
RECORDED
CXXXX ACK IN ORDER
62-83894-18
FBI
29 JUL 22 1947
WA 9½ FBI CI MJW
BPI H8
8-38 PM O
8-22 PM OK FBI WASH DC
Barry
Lee
C. W Reynolds
cc: Mr. Hadd
Zelda Smith
Darla
9 10 59
RECEIVED
ATOMIC ENERGY SECTION
JUL 11 9 19 AM '47
F. B. I.
JUST
F.B.I.
U.S. DEPT. OF JUSTICE
Jul. 9 8 48 PM '47
RECEIVED-LADD
FBI
U S DEPT OF JUSTICE
RECEIVED
LIAISON SECTION
JUL 11 2 56 PM '47
FBI
S. DEPT. OF JUSTICE
Jul 8 8:22 PM '47
RECEIVED TELETYPE UNIT
Jul 8, 8:22 PM '4
F.B.I. DEPT. OF JUSTICE
S. DEPT. OF JUSTICE
LABORATOR
15 9:43 AM 9/14
RECEIVED 11/28/97
U.S. DEPT. OF JUSTICE
RECEIVED-TA/M
Jue 9, 5 53 Au 47
U.S. DEPT. OF JUSTICE
JOK
APRIL 8 2013
JUSTICE
RECEIVED
9 34 AM, 4/7
JUL 10
INTERNAL SECURITY
F.B.I.
DEPT. OF JUSTICE
RECEIVED
F.B.I
LABORATORY DIVISION
FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION
U. S. DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE
COMMUNICATIONS SECTION
EAG
[x] Mr. Tolson
[x] Mr. E. A. Tamm
[ ] Mr. Clegg
[ ] Mr. Glavin
[x] Mr. Ladd
[x] Mr. Nichols
[ ] Mr. Rosen
[ ] Mr. Tracy
[ ] Mr. Egan
[ ] Mr. Gurnea
[x] Mr. Harbo
[ ] Mr. Mohr
[ ] Mr. Pennington
[ ] Mr. Quinn Tamm
[ ] Mr. Nease
[ ] Miss Gandy
<signature>
JUL 1
<signature>
TELETYPE
<signature>
FBI NEW ORLEANS
7-7-47
8-02
CGB
DIRECTOR FBI
VERY URGENT
FLYING DISCS, MISCELLANEOUS. F. C. HARISTON, FIFTEEN FIFTY FOUR AVEUUE, SHREVEPORT, LOUISIANA ADVISES HE OBSERVED A CIRCULAR DISC AT SIX FIVE PM THIS DATE COMING FROM NW DIRECTION. DISC LANDED IN FIFTEEN HUNDRED BLOCK OF TEXAS AVENUE. HAIRSTON PICKED UP DISC AT FIFTEEN FIFTY FOUR TEXAS AVENUE. DISC WHIRLING WHEN SEEN IN AIR AND FIRE SEEN SPOUTING FROM SIDES. FIRE WENT OUT ON LANDING AND SMOKE ISSUED FEW SECONDS AFTER FIRE WENT OUT. DISC PICKED UP AND NOT HOT. HAIRSTON NOTIFIED G-2 BARKSDALE IMMEDIATELY AND THEY TOOK DISC BEFORE SA ARRIVED.
DISC DESCRIPTION-- THIN ALUMINUM DISC SIXTEEN INCHES IN DIAMETER. HAS SMALL COILS TWO INCHES IN DIAMETER AND FOUR INCHES LONG AT THE ENDS OF THE DIAMETER. COILS CONNECTED BY TWO COPPER WIRES TO TWO TERMINALS ON EACH COIL AND THESE WIRES ARE CONNECTED AT THE CROSSING IN THE CENTER OF THE DISC TO AN OBJECT ONE INCH IN DIAMETER BY TWO INCHES LONG, SIMILIAR TO STARTER ON FLOURESCENT LIGHT. CENTER OBJECT HAS ON UPPER END -
--MADE IN USA--MADE SOUND LIKE A POLICEMAN-S WHISTLE AND SMOOTH SIDE TOWARD EARTH IN FLIGHT. BARKSDALE FIELD AGREED IF NOT HARMFULL WOULD TURN OVER TO FBI IF WE WANT IT SUBJECT TO SUPERIOR INSTRUCTIONS. NAMES OF ALL PERSON WHO HANDLED DISC BEFORE ARRIVAL OF
AGENT SECURED. BARKSDALE FIELD MAKING PHOTOS. WILL SECURE AND FORWARD PHOTOS TO BUREAU.
RECORDED: 62-83894-19
BELIEVED PRESS AWARE OF INCIDENT
JUL 22 1947
WEEKS
RECEIVED TELETYPE UNIT
JUL 7 10 18 PM '47
F.B.I. DEPT. OF JUSTICE
DIRECTOR
RECEIVED
U.S. DEPT. OF JUSTICE
JUL 8 5:53 AM '97
RECEIVED
LIAISON SECTION
8 PM 5/24/70
S. DEPT OF JUSTICE
JUL 8 11:30 AM 1947
U.S. DEPT OF JUSTICE
RECEIVED
JUL 9 5 13 PM 17
INTERNAL SECURITY
F.B.I.
DEPT. OF JUSTICE
X
July 10, 1947
62-83894-20
RECORDED
Mr. L. C. A. Hoersch
349 Central Avenue
Jersey City, New Jersey
EX-53
Dear Mr. Hoersch:
Your letter dated July 6, 1947, has been received and I do want to thank you for making this information available to me. Your interest is appreciated.
Sincerely yours,
John Edgar Hoover
Director
FRY smjo
myo
aw
h. Wd 6
1-85
COMMUNICATIONS SECTION
MAILED 11
☆ JUL 11 1947 P.M.
FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION
U. S. DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE
8 AUG 6 1947 (34
Mr. Tolson
Mr. E. A. Tamm
Mr. Clegg
Mr. Olavin
Mr. Ladd
Mr. Nichols
Mr. Rosen
Mr. Tracy
Mr. Egan
Mr. Gurnea
Mr. Harbo
Mr. Mohr
Mr. Pennington
Mr. Quinn Tamm
Tele. Room
Mr. Nease
Miss Candy
FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION
JUL 11 JUIC
PAGIAM
COMMISSIONER
RECEIVED-MAIL ROOM
FBI.
DEPT. OF JUSTICE
62

CHAS. G MACREYNOLDS
TELEPHONE 2-14
The MacReynolds
305-307 Sunset Avenue
Asbury Park, New Jersey
7/6/47
Federal Bureau of Investigation
Washington, D.C.
Gentlemen:
For your information & for what ever value it may be I should like to report seeing one of these "Flying Discs" on July 4. It appeared to have started from the dance hall here at Asbury Park + momentarily I thought it was a balloon but it went in a definite direction at an apparently constant speed + gradually ascending following a path similar to the trajectory of a bullet but more pronounced. It disappeared in the distance going north along the shoreline. F.B.I. Klemmer Miller & Tex Beneke are presently at the dance hall.

I hope this may be of some help to you.
N.C. A. X Hoersch
yours very truly
Flying Disc
Anne
ach
Karolina
47.
FR4
Leah Kourich
349 Central Ave
Jersey City, NJ
MR. JONES
Jul 8 | 50 PM '47
RECEIVED
FBI
S DEPT OF JUSTICE
Mr. J. Edgar Hoover
Wash. D.C.
Doesn't it seem wisest for you to forbid papers - (No not forbid - but ask the co-operation of all papers) to keep all news of those discs out of the news until you are sure just what they are & where from.
Seems to us with all the enemies we have, even within our borders, it could be something far more important than may seem at first. I had 2 sons in this war & another who over-did for his America - & we do want it really protected from danger from now on. Enough are dead & maimed - with-out losing out now as it easily could be. Why have the papers carried that story if reporters were made to see how much more sensible not to report - it except to the F.B.I.
There is too much of danger ahead anyway --
Hastily
/s/  A. T. Norris
1734 Thome Ave
Chicago -
TRUE COPY

STANDARD FORM NO. 64

Office Memorandum
UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

TO : D. M. Ladd <signature>

FROM : H. B. Fletcher <signature>

SUBJECT: FLYING DISCS <signature>
DATE:
July 11, 1947
Mr. Tolson: <empty>
Mr. E. A. Tamm: <empty>
Mr. Clegg: <empty>
Mr. Glavin: <empty>
Mr. Ladd: <empty>
Mr. Nichols: <empty>
Mr. Rosen: <empty>
Mr. Tracy: <empty>
Mr. Carson: <empty>
Mr. Egan: <empty>
Mr. Gurnea: <empty>
Mr. Harbo: <empty>
Mr. Hendon: <empty>
Mr. Pennington: <empty>
Mr. Quinn Tamm: <empty>
Tele. Room: <empty>
Mr. Nease: <empty>
Miss Holmes: <empty>
Miss Gandy: <empty>
<signature>

WS:
<signature>
SAC Bannister of the Butte Office called at noon today and stated that a Mrs. Fred Easterbrook, 215 7th Avenue East, Twin Falls, Idaho, at 2:45 a.m. Mountain Time today heard a noise in the back of her home. She thought a collision had occurred and investigated and found in the back yard of the home next door an object described as follow
A disc 30½" in diameter, circular in shape, it is dished like a saucer and actually there is a saucer within a saucer in the manner of cymbals. On one surface there is attached a plastic dome described as about 1¼" in diameter and affixed by 8 bolts in a rather rough manner. The bolts can best be described as similar to stove bolts. On the other surface is another dome of metal which is gold in color on one side and on the inside silver in color, which looks like tin. Through the plastic dome can be observed three tubes similar to radio tubes and there is some wiring. The disc generally is 10" thick and at the point where the domes are located about 1¼" in thickness. There is an object on it similar to electric coil which has some type of an arm on it and bears the words "Inspected TS". Some of the wiring has been burned off and it looks as though something might be missing.
Mr. Bannister stated that if this were the work of some prankster he went to quite a bit of trouble. He stated the press is aware of this incident. He stated that the disc had been picked up and was now at the Police Department, Twin Falls, Idaho. He was instructed to notify the local Army authorities of the existence of this disc.
<signature>

RECORDED
INDEXED
28
62-83894-21
FBI
37 JUL 22 1947
File <signature>
Fitch <signature>
Parsons <signature>

HBF:PES

EX-65

51 JUL 30 1947
164

Office of Management and Budget - United States Government
DATE: <empty>
July 11, 1965
No. 70
FBI LABORATORY DIVISION
JUL 17 10:22 AM '47
RECEIVED
HARBO
The coffee and tea are served in the lounge area.
To roman off ni teorse a nihilo robus a al credi a Libro on his redres
due to as Pedrosch oron ofidu a belonfin a al credi esbres am no . aligare
xifid edi . anam ducor redim a ni sfod & ud Sexill's bas redim di "II
ni confus devotis it . alod evode ad "II in us bedrogh ad cred neo
at skini et no has skini one no redim ni tleg al folio Iatom to mok yofons
- o od mo evod ofidu ed "II in
Zup of domen
Bild von en han
niw Mo
to can also pr
RECEIVED
JUL 17 10:08 AM 47
CHEMICAL LABORATORY
FBI
S. DEPT OF JUSTICE
RECEIVED
FBI
S. DEPT OF JUSTICE
DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE
FBI
RECEIVED-LA00
JUL 11 4:39 PM 2017
RECEIVED
JUL 16 10:02 AM
INTERNAL SECURITY
F.B.I.
DEPT. OF JUSTICE
FBI
S. DEPT. OF JUSTICE
JUL 16 5 09 PM 47
LIASON SECTION
RECEIVED
July 18, 1947
mh
Mr. G. T. Norris
1734 Thome Avenue
Chicago, Illinois
ar Mr. Norris:
65-83894-22
INDEXED
I wish to acknowledge receipt of your letter postmarked July 7, 1947. The information contained therein has been carefully reviewed and is being made a matter of permanent record in the files of this Bureau. Your interest in writing as you did is indeed appreciated.
In the future should you have information which you feel might be of interest to this Bureau you might find it convenient to contact the Special Agent in Charge of our Chicago Office, which is located at 1900 Bankers' Building, Chicago 3, Illinois.
Sincerely yours,
John Edgar Hoover
Director
cc - Chicago (With incoming. There is no identifiable information in the Bureau's files concerning the writer of this letter. Despite the fact that this letter refers to "flying discs", it is not believed that the information furnished is sufficiently important to refer to Army authorities.)
WVC:WMJ
C.A. Delgado
COMMUNICATIONS SECTION
MAILED 10
JUL 18 1947 P.M.
FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION
U. S. DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE
3 AUG 13 1947
Mr. Tolson
Mr. E. A. Tazewell
Mr. Clegg
Mr. Clavin
Mr. Ladd
Mr. Nichols
Mr. Rosen
Mr. Tracy
Mr. Lynn
Mr. Gurnee
Mr. Harco
Mr. Mohr
Mr. Pennington
Mr. Quinn Tazewell
Tele. Room
Mr. Neave
Miss Candy
88
RECEIVED: 4:44 PM 4/7
FBI DEPT. OF JUSTICE
RECEIVED: 4:18 PM
COMMUNICATIONS SECTION
MAIL TO: JUL 18 1947
FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION
U. S. DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE
Mulif you are sure
just-what-they are
where from.
Seems to us with all
the enemies we have, even
wither our borders
it could be something
far more important than
may seem at first,
had 2 sons in this
war + another who over-did for his America + we do want - if - really protected from danger from enough are dead + maimed + will - but losing out - now as it Dazely could be. Why have the papers carried that story - of reporters
how made to see how much more sensible not to report it - except to the F.B.I.
There is too much danger ahead anyway
Hastily
J. Morris
1734 Thomas Ave
Chicago
Mr. Edgar Hoover
Flying Discs
Washington, D. C.
* Dorsak if seem wisest
for you to forbid papers
(we not forbid - but ask)
The co-operation of all
papers to keep all news of those
knew out - D. The News
RECORDED
62-83894-22
FRI
15 JUL 24 1947
cc Chicago
7-18-47 WVC

STANDARD FORM NO. 64

Office Memorandum

0

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

TO : MR. LADD <signature>
FROM : Roy E. Wood
SUBJECT: FLYING SAUCERS (DISCS)
INFORMATION CONCERNING
DATE: July 10, 1947
Mr. Tolson: [x]
Mr. E. A. Tamm: <empty>
Mr. Clegg: <empty>
Mr. Glavin: <empty>
Mr. Ladd: [x]
Mr. Nichols: [x]
Mr. Rosen: <empty>
Mr. Tracy: <empty>
Mr. Carson: <empty>
Mr. Egan: <empty>
Mr. Gurnea: <empty>
Mr. Harbo: <empty>
Mr. Hendon: <empty>
<signature>
Mr. Pennir
Mr. Quinn
Sale Paper
Tamm
At 5:45 AM this date, SAC Hood telephonically contacted the Bureau and advised at approximately 11:30 PM, July 9, 1947, the office in Los Angeles had received information from the Resident Agent at Burbank, California, that a "flying disc" had landed in or near Burbank and had been seen to burst into flame when it landed. Further, that it had been the cause of a fire in some woods, this fire either in Burbank or possibly in the city limits of Los Angeles, which Mr. Hood could not be certain. The fire chief at Burbank had called the resident agent at Burbank and told him he would hold the disc for him.
Coincident with the information received from Burbank, the Los Angeles Office received calls from the newspapers requesting information. The newspapers stating they had called the Army Air Force Intelligence who had stated "we are not interested". According to Mr. Hood, this comment had aroused the newspapers and they stated they intended to publish this quotation and belabor same in their first issues. Mr. Hood stated that he had refrained from making any statement to the press other than to admit possession of an object and that it was being turned over to military authorities in the morning (this AM), it being Mr. Hood's opinion that he did not want any quotes in the press and certainly not one to the effect that we were not interested.
As described to him, Mr. Hood stated that the object was an aluminum disc about 2' in diameter weighing about ten pounds, painted with aluminum paint and having some sort of a radio tube in the center of the disc. This object was in possession of the resident agent at Burbank and would be turned over to military authorities (G-2) in Los Angeles this morning.
RECORDED 62-83894-23

Mr. Hood's purpose in calling was to place the Bureau on notice regarding the above described object and any further information would be transmitted to the Bureau at once.
Action: None indicated.

REW:da
<signature>
PILMIDIA2021
Office-Meubles
PATR: 2024.10.16
book, I got
I hereby authorize and consent to the release of my personal information to the following entities:
ent holoencephalopathy. 24G Holocephalic, 24G Holocephalic, 24G Holocephalic, 24G Holocephalic, 24G Holocephalic, 24G Holocephalic, 24G Holocephalic, 24G Holocephalic, 24G Holocephalic, 24G Holocephalic, 24G Holocephalic, 24G Holocephalic, 24G Holocephalic, 24G Holocephalic, 24G Holocephalic, 24G Holocephalic, 24G Holocephalic, 24G Holocephalic, 24G Holocephalic, 24G Holocephalic, 24G Holocephalic, 24G Holocephalic, 24G Holocephalic, 24G Holocephalic, 24G Holocephalic, 24G Holocephalic, 24G Holocephalic, 24G Holocephalic, 24G Holocephalic, 24G Holocephalic, 24G Holocephalic, 24G Holocephalic, 24G Holocephalic, 24G Holocephalic, 24G Holocephalic, 24G Holocephalic, 24G Holocephalic, 24G Holocephalic, 24G Holocephalic, 24G Holocephalic, 24G Holocephalic, 24G Holocephalic, 24G Holocephalic, 24G Holocephalic, 24G Holocephalic, 24G Holocephalic, 24G Holocephalic, 24G Holocephalic, 24G Holocephalic, 24G Holocephalic, 24G Holocephalic, 24G Holocephalic, 24G Holocephalic, 24G Holocephalic, 24G Holocephalic, 24G Holocephalic,
and dubovtaper nottoak ons dit nobo denavon ei alumni nesuper aegearen at hout sites. Devos pol320 Br" batste bad or somey Iste sood AgarA 9d belles ben vert gnista x Add beau's bed the mop and becH of broso "bedaan Jor in tones da bo no teu alt dong of bobnetal vand beaude ved brus decalede ve emblem mert bentertes bad on ten badeta Food Touca add be dosida ge to noisenazo mba od nart er at ad (MA sidd) pa add ni asilodus vredi it od soon ginen bas padour vos Joan den bib o tal noto .betesten ton enow sw dads footho
FBI
DEPT. OF JUSTICE
FBI
S. DEPT OF JUSTICE
RECEIVED
JUL 17 12:28 PM 47
JUL 16 - 2 16 PM 47
U.S. DEPT OF JUSTICE
FBI
RECEIVED-TOSON
RECEIVED
Jul 10 2:33 PM 47
Jul 10 9:15 AM 47
RECEIVED-TAMM
FBI
U.S. DEPT. OF JUSTICE
Jul 10
JUL 10 31 AM 47
U.S. DEPT. OF JUSTICE
62-83894-24
This image is a photograph of a metallic, disc-shaped object with a tall, triangular fin. The object appears to be a model or prototype, possibly of an aircraft or spacecraft. It has a smooth, reflective surface and a prominent fin on top. There are some visible details along the edge of the disc, suggesting vents or structural elements.
SIDE VIEW
62-83894-24
The image shows a circular object with triangular cutouts around its edge. There is a central hole with a small apparatus inside and several smaller holes around the rim. A lever-like element extends from the left side of the object. The object appears to be made of metal.
BOTTOM VIEW
The image shows a metal disc with a central hole. A dark, pointed object, possibly a blade or a wedge, is inserted into the disc from the top, splitting it radially. The disc has a raised rim and appears to be mounted on a surface. There is also a cylindrical protrusion on the left side of the disc.
TOP VIEW

STANDARD FORM NO. 64

Office Memorandum
UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

TO: Director, FBI
DATE: July 17, 1947
FROM: SAC, Los Angeles
SUBJECT: RECOVERY OF "FLYING DISC",
NORTH HOLLYWOOD, CALIFORNIA,
JULY 9, 1947
On the evening of July 9, 1947, a report was received at the Los Angeles Office that a so-called "flying disc" had landed in the vicinity of Radford and Magnolia Streets in North Hollywood, California, the contraption being briefly described as approximately 30 inches in diameter, all metal, disc shaped, and having a radio antenna. It was reported to have burst into flames upon landing. At the time of the report the disc was being held at the Valley Fire Department in Van Nuys, California.
SA RICHARD D. AUERBACH went to the fire department immediately at which time it was found that a number of people had gathered including newspaper reporters and photographers who were taking pictures of the disc. Battalion Fire Chief WALLACE E. NEWCOMB advised Agent that at approximately 10:30 P.M., an unknown woman called on the telephone and excitedly reported that the disc had dropped into her garden where it began to flame, her residence being located at 11858 Magnolia Boulevard, North Hollywood. A fire department truck was sent there and put out the flaming object with the fire hose, after which the object was taken to the fire station. SA AUERBACH thereafter arranged to transport the disc to the office.
The device is briefly described as consisting of two convex steel discs approximately 2 feet in diameter, fused together at the outer edge and fastened together in the center by a hollow cylindrical connection. A vertical galvanized iron fin was screwed to the top of the disc, and a short length of pipe closed at one end ran from the outer circumference into the interior of the contraption. What appeared to be a radio tube was installed in the center of the top side. The contraption had a total weight of approximately 20 pounds.
At the Bureau Office a series of photographs were taken of the device from various positions, and a set of these photographs are being forwarded herewith for the Bureau's inspection and information.
The "flying disc" was thereafter turned over to Major COURTNEY W. HEMPSTEAD, A.C., G-2, Fort MacArthur, San Pedro, California, who subsequently reported that the object was definitely a hoax and under no circumstances could have flown under its own power.
ENCL. ATTACHED
Info furnished
MM 8/2/47
RECORDED
INDEXED
62-83894-24
3
EX-64
102
F B I
EX-64
60 OCT 21 1947
28 R 344
COPIES DESTROYED
270
NOV 18 1964
29 JUL 23 1947
Files
Parsons
40 X3
RECEIVED
IL 31 12 35 PM
INTERNAL SECURITY
F. B. I.
COSHSE DEALROAD
CCATOS 140
тол
RECEIVED
JUL 31 3:06 PM '47
LIASON SECTION
FBI
DEPT. OF JUSTICE

RECEIVED
JUL 7 2:00 PM '48
CLINICAL LABORATOR
FBI
S. DEPT. OF JUSTICE
[The image shows a piece of aged, yellowed paper with faint, barely legible text. The paper has a small, dark stain or hole near the bottom left corner. The text appears to be a dense, typewritten document, possibly a letter or report, with some words and phrases partially obscured by the aging and staining of the paper.]
Director, FBI
July 17, 1947
Re: RECOVERY OF "FLYING DISC", NORTH HOLLYWOOD, CALIFORNIA, JULY 9, 1947
On the following day, July 10, 1947, one FRANK V. BROWN, 6552 Teesdale Avenue, North Hollywood, reported that on this morning he was at the North Hollywood Service Station eating at which time there was considerable talk about the flying disc having been found in the vicinity. A number of what appeared to be young high school students were present and were having quite a laugh about the excitement caused by the finding of the disc. BROWN stated that he received a definite impression that these young students either had themselves or knew of someone who had been working for the past two weeks making this "flying disc". BROWN was unable to furnish the names of any of these young men but identified one of them who was making the statements as being employed in a Chevron Service Station at the corner of Victory Boulevard and Whitsett Street. He described the youngster as about sixteen years of age.
The above information was also furnished to the G-2 Office at San Pedro, California.
MMB: MGM
100-9099
ENC. (3)

-2-
STANDARD FORM NO. 64

Office Memorandum
UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

TO : Director, FBI
DATE: July 3, 1947
FROM : SAC, Butte
<signature>
SUBJECT: FLYING DISCS
Mr. DAVE JOHNSON, of the Idaho Daily Statesman, Boise, Idaho, telephonically contacted the Butte Office and asked if the FBI was checking on the flying discs reported to have been seen by many citizens. He advised that so many had reported having seen them that it undoubtedly was not a figment of the imagination. He said that these discs had been seen on July 1, 1947, in the vicinity of Trail Creek near Sun Valley, Idaho, by reputable citizens.
The writer informed Mr. JOHNSON that this office was not making an investigation and inquired as to whether he had contacted Army and Navy officials. He said that he was inquiring of these agencies.
WGB:LB
AIR MAIL
Not necessary on this M.A.
EX-46
RECORDED
&
INDEXED
<signature> 62-83894-25
51 AUG 5 1947
36 FBI JUL 23 1947
Sogin
767
6
RECEIVED
JUL 7 10 54 AM '6
INTERNAL SECURITY
F. B. I.
DEPT. OF JUST

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION
U. S. DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE
COMMUNICATIONS SECTION
EATH
V
Рофото
| Glavia<br />M. Ladd<br />ir. Nich<br />Mr. Rose   |
|-|
| Mr. Tracy                                         |
| Mr. Egan<br />Gurnen<br />Harbo                   |
| Mr. Mohr                                          |
| Mr. Pennington.....<br />ME<br /><br />Mr. Nease. |
JUL 16 1947

TELETYPE
7-16-47
10 15 AM
FBI SEATTLE
DIRECTOR
7-16-47
URGENT
RE FLYING DISKS. MRS. T. L. X KREMMEr, TWO SIX NAUGHT EIGHT DAS
THIRD AVE., WEST, SEATTLE, REPORTED FLYING DISK HAD LANDE
D ON VER ROOF
T TIME AND
ABOUT NINE FORTY TWO PM LAST NIGHT, THAT IT WAS BURNING A
IMMEDIATELY EXTINGUISHED. SHE ALSO ADVISED ONI, AND DISK
DISTANCE FROM THEIR OFFICES. AGENTS IMMEDIATELY DISPATCHED TO S
AND RECOVERED DISK TAKEN ONI OFFICES AND EXAMINED BY NAVY BOMB AND
ELECTRONICS  EXPERTS AND AGENTS. DISK DESCRIBED AS ABOUT
TWENTY EIGHT INCH CIRCULAR PIECE THREE SIXTEENTH INCH PLYWOOD
CUPPED UP ON TWO SIDES AND HELD THIS POSITION BY WIRE ACROSS ITS CENTER.
DISK NEWLY PAINTED LIGHT GRAY OUTSIDE AND RED INSIDE, AND INSIDE OF
HAD PRINTED LETTERS IN WHITE PAINT AS FOLLOWS QUOTE U S S R UNQUOTE,
ALSO QUOTE E Y R UNQUOTE, WHICH WOULD APPEAR TO BE RYE PRINTED BACKWARD AND A HAMMER AND SICKLE. MOUNTED ON PIECES OF BAKELITE IN THE CENTER
OF THE INSIDE OF THE DISK WERE TWO RADIO TUBES, WHICH WERE WIRED UP
AND ALSO SO MOUNTED WAS ABOUT A QUART TYPE CYLINDRICAL SHAPED OIL CAN
TO WHICH WAS FITTED A SHORT PIECE OF RUBBER TUBING RUNNING FROM CAN
TO ENTRANCE TO A PIECE OF ONE INCH PIPE ABOUT FOURTEEN INCHES LONG.
THE PIPE EXTENDED THROUGH THE DISK
62-83894-26
WAS ABOUT A SIX INCH PIECE OF CLO
INTO THE END OF THE PIPE. THE EN
BURNING. THE CLOTH WAS SATURATED
137
INDEXED
FX-57
29 JUL 28 1947
ABOUT AND STUCK
E CHARRED FROM
cc: Mr. Abdul
Jul. 16 7 00 PM '47
RECEIVED-LADD
FBI
U S DEPT OF JUSTICE
RECEIVED-TAMM
FBI
U.S. DEPT. OF JUSTICE
Jul 16 4:28 PM 47
RECE
RECEIVED
JUL 16 3:42 PM '47
RECEIVED
JUL 25 9:43 AM '47
CHEMICAL LABORATOR F B I
U.S. DEPT OF JUSTICE
DEPT. OF JUSTICE
FBI
JUL 17 3 12 PM 97
LIASON SECTION
RECEIVED
RECEIVED-NICHOLS
FBI
US DEPT OF JUSTICE
JUL 24 9 27
RECEIVED
JUL 17 9 48 AM Librari
INTERNAL SECURITY U.S. DEPT. OF JUSTICE
JUL 16 2 34 PM 47
PAGE TWO
BELIEVED TO BE TURPENTINE. CONSENSUS OF ALL PRESENT THAT DISK COULD NOT FLY. DISK PRESENTLY IN POSSESSION OF ONI SEATTLE AND NO INVESTIGATION BEING CONDUCTED. NO PUBLICITY THUS FAR AND
NO COMMENT BEING MADE IN EVENT PRESS
brought Sadeen
S.C. Green M.D
7/6/50.
MAYNOR
END
2-22 PM OK FBI WA NM
0
RECEIVED TELETYPE UNIT
Jul 16 2 26 PM '47
F.B.I. DEPT. OF JUSTICE
JUL 16 7:00 PM 97
RECEIVED-LAW
FBI
US DEPT OF JUSTICE
RECEIVED
Jul 17 1948 AM 2:10
AIRLIFT SECURITY
INTERNAL SECURITY
F.B.I.
RECEIVED
LIASON SECTION
3 12 PM 47
FBI
S. DEPT. OF JUSTICE

STANDARD FORM NO. 64

Office Memorandum

0

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

TO : DIRECTOR, FBI
DATE: July 18, 1947
FROM : SAC, NEW HAVEN
SUBJECT: "FLYING SAUCERS"
EDWIN M. BAILEY, JR.
STAMFORD, CONNECTICUT, INFORMANT
ATOMIC ENERGY ACT
<signature>
For the information of the Bureau this is to advise that on July 7, 1947, EDWIN M. BAILEY, Jr., 6 Home Court, Stamford, Connecticut, appeared at the Stamford Resident Agent's office and furnished the following information:-
Mr. BAILEY prefaced his remarks by stating that he is a scientist by occupation and is currently employed at the American Cyanamid Research Laboratories on West Main Street in Stamford, Connecticut, in the Physics Division. Mr. BAILEY further indicated that during the war he was employed at MIT, Cambridge, Massachusetts, in the Radiation Laboratory which Laboratory is connected with the Manhattan Project. BAILEY advised that he is thirty years of age and is a graduate of the University of Arizona.
Mr. BAILEY stated that the topic of "flying saucers" had caused considerable comment and concern to the present day scientists and indicated that he himself had a personal theory concerning the "flying saucers". Prior to advancing his own theory, BAILEY remarked that immediately after the conclusion of World War II, a friend of his, RENATO FECHETTI, allegedly observed the "flying saucers" from an observatory in Milan and Bologna, Italy. He stated that apparently at that time the "flying saucers" had caused a little comment in Italy but that after some little publicity they immediately died out as public interest. Mr. BAILEY stated that it is quite possible that actually the "flying saucers" could be radio controlled germ bombs or atom bombs which are circling the orbit of the earth and which could be controlled by radio and directed to land on any designated target at the specific desire of the agency or country operating the bombs. He stated that one of the items of interest which he personally has observed is the fact that the saucers have been observed in Mexico City, New Orleans, Philadelphia, New York, Boston, Halifax, Newfoundland, Paris, Milan, Bologna and Yugoslavia as well as Albania. By placing a string around the globe of the earth it
FXM/clb
117-0
G. I. R. 5
RECORDED
72
INDEXED
EX-36
162-83894-27
FBI
15 JUL 22 1947
60 AUG 4 - 1947
112
COPIES DESTROYED
270 NOV 18 1964
FIVE
<signature>
<signature>
<signature>
goodluck to Div 5
7-2322
goodluck 7-2922
RECEIVED
ATOMIC ENERGY SECTION
JUL 23 4 26 PM '47
F. B. I.
U. S. DEPT. OF JUSTICE
RECEIVED
RECEIVED
ATOMIC SECTION
JUL 24 9 03 AM JUL 28 9 20 AM '47
INTERNAL SECURITY
F. B. I.
F.B.I.
U. S. DEPT. OF JUSTICE
DEPT. OF JUSTICE
Letter to the DIRECTOR, FBI
July 18, 1947
Re: "FLYING SAUCERS"
EDWIN M. BAILEY, JR.,
STAMFORD, CONNECTICUT, INFORMANT
ATOMIC ENERGY ACT
would be noticed that all of the above-mentioned cities form a direct orbit or circle around the earth and would be more or less in line of any path in which the saucers could be circling.
Mr. BAILEY further stated that he had recently talked with RICHARD PERKIN, one of the owners of Perkin-Elmer Company in Glenbrook, Connecticut, and had been informed by Mr. PERKIN that his company is making a large powerful telescope to be used in searching the stratosphere for atom bombs.
EDWARD
Pam
(REC 4AM
7/19/47
AF when)

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION
U. S. DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE
COMMUNICATIONS SECTION
| Mr. Tolson          |
|-|
| MR. A. Tama         |
| Mr. Clegg           |
| Mr. Glavin          |
| Mr. Ladd.           |
| Mr. Nichols.        |
| Mr. Rosem           |
| Mr. Tracy           |
| Mr. Egan.           |
| Mr. Gurnen          |
| r. Harko            |
| Mr. Mohr            |
| Mr. Pennington..... |
| Mr. Quinn Tamm....  |
| Mr. Nease.....      |
| Miss Gandy          |
JUL 18 1947
TELETYPE
Mum
WASHINGTON FROM BOSTON 3
18
TONY
10-53P

Mr. Quinn Tamm: 
Mr. Nease: 
Miss Gandy:
10-53P
DIRECTOR
Zbyněk Lareček
METAL FRAGMENTS OBSERVED AT WEST RINDGE, N.H., JULY SEVEN, FORTYSEVEN,
SECURITY MATTER-X., DEAN JOHN M. BUNKER, SECURITY OFFICER, M.I.T.,
CAMBRIDGE, MASS., ADVISED THAT TODAY HE WAS IN CONTACT WITH ONE CHARLES N. TASKER, OF WEST RINDGE, N.H., A RETIRED VICE PRESIDENT OF THE NEW ENGLAND TEL. AND TEL.CO. MR.TASKER ADVISED THAT AT APPROXIMATEY THREE PM ON JULY SEVEN LAST SEVERAL PEOPLE SITTING ON A PORCH OBSERVED ON THE LAWN OF EARL WHITEHEAD, ROUTE TWO NAUGHT TWO, WEST RINDGE, N.H., LITTLE CURLS OF SMOKE, WHICH ON INSPECTION DISCLOSED SMALL BURNED SPOTS ABOUT ONE AND ONE HALF INCHES IN DIAMATER ON THE GREEN LAWN. ALSO IN THE LONG DRY BRASS ON BOTH SIDES OF ROAD IN A CIRCLE APPROXIMATELY TWO HUNDRED FEET IN DIAMETER SEVERAL LITTLE BLAZES HAD STARTED AND THE FIRE DEPT. WAS CALLED. FIRES WERE APPARENTLY CAUSED BY METALLIC FRAGMENTATIONS WHICH WERE TURNED OVER TO PROFESSOR RENTGES, OF MIT, BY A MR. PARKE D. APPEL, OF THE TELEPHONE COMPANY. RENTGES HAS ADVISED DEAN BUNKER THAT THEIR GENERAL APPEARANCE ARE SIMILAR TO THE LINING OF V DASH TWO BOMBS, WHICH HE HAD OBSERVED AT NEW MEXICO.
OK
AN OUTSIDE VIEW OF THE M
RECORDED
INDEX MAP
13
EX-64
LINING FROM A JET
PROFESSOR L.H. DEWALD,
THAT THEY ARE POSSIBLY THE
TIME HE IS IN PROCESS OF A
SCIENTISTS IN ROUGHLY RECON
APPROXIMATELY FOURTEEN INCH
METALLURGIST AT MII, S
62-83894-28
ET TURBO PLANE. AT PRES
OF THESE PIECE
G
RECEIVED
RECEIVED
DEC 21 9:39 AM
SECTION
JUL 2 2:23 PM '47
F. B. I.
U. S. DEPT. OF JUSTICE
RECEIVED
RECEIVED
LIAISON SECTION
Aug 11 10 37 AM '47
FBI
DEPT. OF JUSTICE
RECEIVED
RECEI
AISON SECTION
4:43 PM ³47
FBI
FBI
PT. OF JUSTICE
FBI DIVISION
LABORATORY DIVISION
31.4.52 PH 347
RECEIVED-HAKBU
UL 21 4 48 PM '47
L E
CHNICAL LABORATOR
FBI
S. DEPT. OF JUSTICE
JEGELAS
CHARTERED 2000

---PAGE TWO----
SIXTEENTHS OF AN INCH THICK, AND MACHINE TOOLED, AND SOME FRAGMENTS INDICATED THEY WERE BURNED AND  APPEARED TO HAVE BEEN SUBJECTED TO TERRIFIC HEAT. THESE SCIENTISTS ARE TREATING THIS MATTER AS CLASSIFIED INFORMATION. MR.  TASKER, AT WEST RINDGE, N.H. IS ALSO ENDEAVORING TO COLLECT ADDITIONAL FRAGMENTS AND HAS STATED THAT THE FIRE CHIEF AT WEST RINDGE HAS ALSO SEVERAL FRAGMENTS IN HIS POSSESSION. MR. TASKER INDICATED THAT THE WHITEHEAD RESIDENCE IS SEVEN TO EIGHT HUNDRED FEET EAST OF THE RAILROAD TRACKS. DEAN BUNKER STATED HE WILL MAKE THE RESULTS OF M I T RESEARCH AVAILABLE IF SIGNIFICANT. OPINIONS OF SCIENTISTS AS SET FORTH ABOVE SUGGEST POSSBLE MILITARY INTEREST. MILITARY AUTHORITIES AT BOSTON HAVE NOT BEEN NOTIFIED.
SOU CY
HOLD
To attention: 
Your S.C. Jaeshon m.in
8/11/47
cc - mr. Rosh
RECEIVED TELETYPE UNIT
JUL 18 11 06 PM '47
F.B.I. DEPT. OF JUSTICE
Chucho
INTERNAL F.B.I.
9 39 AM
6
21
IULI
SECURITY
Jul. 19 I or PM '47
RECEIVED-LAD11
Jul 19 5:54 AM 97
U.S. DEPT. OF JUSTICE
RECEIVED
RECEIVED
DIRECTOR
J.S. DEPT. OF JUSTICE
FILED 1954 NW 217
w
x
July 23, 1947
RECORDED
INDEXED
62-83894-29
EX-57
Mrs. John Maurice Clark
41 Wright Street
Westport, Connecticut
Dear Mrs. Clark:
Your letter dated July 17, 1947, together with enclosures, has been received and I want to thank you for submitting the letter you mentioned to me.
Sincerely yours,
John Edgar Hoover
Director
COMMUNICATIONS SECTION
MAILED 2
JUL 23 1947 P.M.
FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION
U. S. DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE
Viva
Mr. Tolson
 Mr. E. A. Tamm
 Mr. Clegg
 Mr. Glavin
 Mr. Ladd
 Mr. Nichols
 Mr. Rosen
 Mr. Tracy
 Mr. Egan
 Mr. Gurnea
 Mr. Harbo
 Mr. Mohr
 Mr. Pennington
 Mr. Quinn Tamm
 Tele. Room
 Mr. Nease
 Miss Gandy
Jaid
BHM:rib
51 OCT 11 1947/163
[handwritten text on a yellowed piece of paper]
L 23 502 PM
FBI
Jul. 25 10:54 AM '47
RECEIVED-LADD
FBI
S DEPT OF JUSTICE
EX
BROOKBAND

MRS. JOHN MAURICE CLARK
THREE CORNERED POND
R. F. D. 6
AUGUSTA, MAINE
Mr. Tolson: 
Mr. E. A. Tamm: 
Mr. Clegg: 
Mr. Glavin: 
Mr. Ladd: 
Mr. Nichols: 
Mr. Rosen: 
Mr. Tracy: 
Mr. Egan: 
Mr. Gurnea: 
Mr. Harbo: 
Mr. Mohr: 
Mr. Pennington: 
Mr. Quinn Tamm: 
Mr. Nease: 
Miss Gandy: 
ght:
Mr. J. Edgar Hoover,
F.B.I.
Washington, D.C.
[x] Flying Disc
Dear Mr. Hoover:
The enclosed came to my husband yesterday. After reading it aloud to the family, as a good example of crack-pot-ism, advertising or what have you, he threw it into the wastebasket. I retrieved it, thinking it might better go into your wastebasket than ours, examined by your department en route thither, as of possible value. I presume several thousand have been mailed, and you may receive numberless duplicates. I will risk that. Mr. Clark as an economist at Columbia University receives many strange missives. This is as strange a one as has come for some time, and very appropriate to the present moment.
Sincerely yours,
ne present moment.
Winifred G. Clark
<signature>
Mrs. J.M.Clark
July 17, 1947
Home address: 41 Wright St. Westport, Conn.
Dr. John M. Clark
<signature>

1 ENCL

CK-57

ansd ack 1/23/47 Bhmi
RECORDED: 62-83894-29
INDEXED: 28
FBI: <empty>
15 JUL 28 1947: <empty>
EX-57: <empty>
<signature>

MR.

JONES
FBI
5
INVESTIGATIVE DIVISION
47 AM 47
FBI
S. DEPT OF JUSTICE
RECEIVED
DIRECTOR
U.S. DEPT
JUL 21 3
DEPT. OF JUSTICE
RECHTEN-RO
OCT 1 19 PM '47
FBI
DEPT. OF JUSTICE
RECEIVED-MICHOL
FBI
DEPT OF JUSTICE
Jul. 21 5 28 PM
July 11, 1947.
Dear Sir:
Have you seen one of the mysterious "Saucers"?
What did it look like?
Do you think these strange, celestial manifesta-
tions are harbingers of a better day?
Do you believe it means that a new and revolutionary advance is coming?
Will it make your life brighter, happier, more useful?
We believe one of these startling discs is on its way to you. Then the secret will be out.
The Combined and Amalgamated Committee of Sky-Scanners, Disc Decipherers and New-Product Introducers.
62-83894-29
ENCLOSURE
3
July 10, 1947
Mr. Woodson C. Cope
Cliffside Hall
San Marcos, Texas
Dear Mr. Cope:
I wish to acknowledge receipt of your Western Union telegram dated July 7, 1947. Your interest in making this information available to me is greatly appreciated.
Inasmuch as the contents of your telegram appear to be of interest to the War Department only, I have taken the liberty of making the information furnished by you available to that Department.
Sincerely yours,
John Edgar Hoover
Director
cc - San Antonio
NOTE: The telegram referred to "flying discs."
RECORDED
& INDEXED
62-83894-30
EX-64
89
FBI
51 JUL 23 1947
RECEIVED READING 4/26 PM 4/7
spec
EA6.
COMMUNICATIONS SECTION
MAILED 2
JUL 14 1947 P.M.
FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION
U. S. DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE
Mr. Tolson: 
Mr. E. A. Tamm: 
Mr. Clegg: 
Mr. Glavin: 
Mr. Ladd: 
Mr. Nichols: 
Mr. Rosen: 
Mr. Tracy: 
Mr. Egan: 
Mr. Gurnea: 
Harbo: 
Mohr: 
Pennington: 
Quinn Tamm: 
Room: 
Nease: 
Gandy:
:mn
80 AUG 11 1947
RECEIVED-MAIL ROOM
F B I
DEPT OF JUSTICE
L 14 3 17 PM
08
RECORDED
DEZED
EX-P1
| Entity | Information |
|---|---|
| U.S. Department of Justice | Federal Bureau of Investigation |
| Stamp | MAILED 5 P.M. JUL 11 1941 |
| Communications Section |
72054
July 10, 1947
2
Mr. J. U. Watts, Jr.
Darlington, South Carolina
Dear Mr. Watson
I wish to acknowledge receipt of your Western Union telegram dated July 6, 1947. Your interest in bringing this information to my attention is greatly appreciated.
Inasmuch as the contents of your telegram appear to be of interest to the War Department only, I have taken the liberty of turning this information over to that Department.
Sincerely yours,
John Edgar Hoover
Director
The image contains handwritten text and symbols. Key elements include:

*   A signature or initial in cursive at the top.
*   The word "дрели" or a similar cursive word below the first signature.
*   The number "36" written in red.
*   A large, stylized signature or symbol in black ink.
*   A smaller, diagonal red marking that appears to be "TO".
*   A hatched or scribbled area.
cc - Savannah
NOTE: The telegram referred to "flying discs,
| COMMUNICATIONS SECTION                                           |
|-|
| MAILED 2                                                         |
| JUL 14 1947 P.M.                                                 |
| FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION<br />U. S. DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE |
RECEIVED READING ROOM
JUL 14
1947
63-8-26 PM 3894
FBI
51 DEC 23 1947
RECORDED
INDEXED
119
JUN 28 2007
EX-53
- GARD
LIS
y
an
Arnea
Harbo
Mohr
Pennington
Quinn Tenn
e. Room
Nease
s Gandy
WVC:mn
18
60 AUG 6 - 1947
Nes
4 3:17 PM 4/2
ED-MAIL ROOM
B I
OF JUSTICE
COMMUNICATIONS SECTION
MAILED
JUL 14 1947
FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION
U. S. DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION
U. S. DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE
COMMUNICATIONS SECTION
Re: 100g
nr
| Mr. Toison<br />Mr. B. A. Tamm.....<br /><br />Mr. Cleg<br />Glavin<br />Ladd   |
|-|
| Mr. Nichols                                                                     |
| Mr. Rosén                                                                       |
| Mr. Tracy                                                                       |
| Mr. an                                                                          |
| Mr. Gurnea                                                                      |
| Air. Karbo<br />Mr. Mohr                                                        |
| Mr. Pennington                                                                  |
| Mr. Qan Tamm.                                                                   |

AUG 14 1947

TELETYPE
FB
7/20/2021
FBI SEATTLE
8-14-47
5-15 PM
FB
DIRECTOR
ROUTINE
FLYING DISCS SIGHTED BY FRED CHRISMAN AND HAROLD A. DAHL, TAC
WASHINGTON, SM X. REURTTEL INSTANT DATE. PLEASE BE ADVISED T
DAHL DID NOT ADMIT TO SMITH THAT HIS STORY WAS A HOAX BUT ONL
STATED THAT IF QUESTIONED BY AUTHORITIES HE WAS GOING TO SAY
A HOAX BECAUSE HE DID NOT WANT ANY FURTHER TROUBLE OVER THE M
COMPLETE REPORT NOW EN ROUTE TO BUREAU AMSD, WHICH INDICATES
PROBABLY CHRISMAN OR DAHL MADE THE ANONYMOUS PHONE CALL IN TH
HOPE OF BULDING UP THEIR STORY THROUGH PUBLICITY TO A POINT W
THEY COULD MAKE A PROFITABLE DEAL WITH FANTASY MAGAZINE, CHIC
ILLINOIS. DAHL AND CHRISMAN WILL NOT BE REINTERVIEWED UNLESS
ADVISED TO THE CONTRARY BY THE BUREAU.
6283894-32
WILCOX
A AND HOLD PLS
9-16 PM OK FBI WASH DC GAR
RECORDED
RECORDED
INDEXED
38
FBI
AUG 15, 1947
28
G. I. R. -1 RC: Mr. Fletcher
EX-67
5-RJ
3 AUG 26 1947 252
VIA VERITAS
RECEIVED
AUG 15 9:31 AM '47
INTERNAL SECURITY
F.B.I.
DEPT. OF JUST
CHE
VALOSHE
DID HOJ
ONED
Aug 14 9:19 PM 47
UNIT TELETYPE RECEIVED
(B) FLYING DISCS -- The Bureau, at the request of the Army Air Forces Intelligence, has agreed to cooperate in the investigation of flying discs. The Air Forces have confidentially advised that it is possible to release three or more discs in odd numbers, attached together by a wire, from an airplane in high altitudes and that these discs would obtain tremendous speed in their descent and would decend to the earth in an arc. The Army Air Forces Intelligence has also indicated some concern that the reported sightings might have been made by subversive individuals for the purpose of creating a mass hysteria.
7-30-47
BUREAU BULLETIN NO. 42
Series 1947
[ ]
1
-2-
You should investigate each instance which is brought to your attention of a sighting of a flying disc in order to ascertain whether or not is is a bona fide sighting, an imaginary one or a prank. You should also bear in mind that individuals might report seeing flying discs for various reasons. It is conceivable that an individual might be desirous of seeking personal publicity, causing hysteria or playing a prank.
The Bureau should be notified immediately by teletype of all reported sightings and the results of your inquiries. In instances where the report appears to have merit, the teletype should be followed by a letter to the Bureau containing in detail the results of your inquiries. The Army Air Forces have assured the Bureau complete cooperating in these matters and in any instances where they fail to make information available to you or make the recovered discs available for your examination, it should promptly be brought to the attention of the Bureau.
Any information you develop in connection with these discs should be promptly brought to the attention of the Army through your usual liaison channels.
ORIGINAL COPY FILED IN 66-03-839.
62-83894-
NOT RECORDED
78 AUG 4, 1947
752
58 AUG 18 1947
AFTER FIVE DAYS RETURN TO
6512 Mission St
Daly City, Calif
SAN FRANCISCO, CALIF. 7947
JUL 21 1-PM
BUILD YOUR
WISELY, S
U.S. SAVING
UNITED STATES POSTAGE
THOMAS JEFFERSON
1801-1809
3 CENTS 3
Mr J Edgar Hoover
F.B.I.
Washington, D.C.
6512 Mission St.
Jupiter 4-4469

Daly City Sheet Metal Works

Air Conditioning - Gas Furnaces
Sky Lights - General Repairing
Jm
July 20 194 7
Mr J Edgar Hoover
M <empty>
Washington D.C. <empty>
KANSAS COMMUNICATIONS
ENVELOPE ATTACHED
Dear Sir,
Flying Saucers
Reading about Kenneth Arhold seeing these flyling saucers. I got a brain-storm, Maybe there is someone that is Manufacturing a contraption that could be sent up by Remote Control. and could be used against us.
RECORDED: 162-83894-34
INDEXED: 
50 SEP 30 1947 129
36 JUL 31 1947
MR. JONES
25 3 09 PM '47
RECEIVED
FBI
S DEPT OF JUSTICE
Dana
7-25
ONE
composite
2019

This image contains all the information on the document
STANDARD FORM NO. 64

Office Memorandum

.

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

TO : D. M. LADD <signature>
FROM : E. G. Fitch
SUBJECT: FLYING DISKS
DATE: 7/10/47

<signature>
<signature>
Mr. Tolson
Mr. E. A. Tamm
Mr. Clegg
Mr. Glavin
Mr. Ladd
Mr. Nichols
Mr. Rosen
Mr. Tracy
Mr. Carson
Mr. Egan
Mr. Gurnea
Mr. Harbo
Mr. Hendon
Mr. Pennington
Mr. Quinn Tamm
Tele. Room
Mr. Nease
Miss Beahm
Miss Gandy

gen, Chief of
telligence,
At request of Brigadier General George F. Schulgen, Chief of the Requirements Intelligence Branch of Army Air Corps Intelligence, Special Agent S. W. Reynolds discussed the above captioned matter with him on July 9, 1947. General Schulgen indicated to Mr. Reynolds that the Air Corps has taken the attitude that every effort must be undertaken in order to run down and ascertain whether or not the flying disks are a fact and, if so, to learn all about them. According to General Schulgen, the Air Corps Intelligence are utilizing all of their scientists in order to ascertain whether or not such a phenomenon could in fact occur. He stated that this research is being conducted in the thought that the flying objects might be a celestial phenomenon and with the view that they might be a foreign body mechanically devised and controlled.
General Schulgen also indicated to Mr. Reynolds that all Air Corps installations have been alerted to run out each reported sighting to obtain all viable data to assist in this research project. In passing, General Schulgen noted that an Air Corps pilot who believed that he saw one of these objects was thoroughly interrogated by General Schulgen and scientists, as well as a psychologist, and the pilot was adamant in his claim that he saw a flying disk.
General Schulgen advised Mr. Reynolds that the possibility exists that the first reported sightings of the so-called flying disks were fallacious and prompted by individuals seeking personal publicity, or were reported for political reasons. He stated that if this was so, subsequent sightings might be the result of a mass hysteria. He pointed out that the thought exists that the first reported sightings might have been by individuals of Communist sympathies with the view to causing hysteria and fear of a secret Russian weapon.
'
General Schulgen indicated to Mr. Reynolds that he is desirous of having all the angles covered in this matter. He stated that reports of his scientists and findings of the various Air Corps installations will be available in his office. He advised that to complete the picture he desired the assistance of the Federal Bureau of Investigation in locating and questioning the individuals who first sighted the so-called flying disks in order to ascertain whether or not they are sincere in their statements that they saw these disks, or whether their statements were prompted by personal desire for publicity or political reasons. General Schulgen assured Mr. Reynolds that there are no War Department or Navy Department research projects presently being conducted which could in any way be tied up with the flying disks. General Schulgen indicated to Mr. Reynolds that if the Bureau would cooperate with him in this matter, he would offer all the facilities of his office as to results obtained in the effort to identify and run down this matter.
Mr. Reynolds advised General Schulgen that his request would be made known to the Bureau and an answer made available to him as soon as possible.
51 AUG 7 1947 68 1018
UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT
DATE: 7/20/67
TO : H. W. LANDRY
FROM : N. G. Fitch
SUBJECT: ZAYING DISKS
RECEIVED TAMMI
FBI
U.S. DEPT. OF JUSTICE
AUG 1 12 PM '47
I am
RECEIVED: 6 45 PM 4/7
RECEIVED: 7 B I
U.S. DEPT OF JUSTICE
RECEIVED: 2 13 PM 4/7
DEPT OF JUSTICE
RECEIVED: 7 B I
U.S. DEPT OF JUSTICE
RECEIVED: 2 13 PM 4/7
DEPT OF JUSTICE
RECEIVED-TAMM
RECEIVED-TAMM
FBI
U.S. DEPT. OF JUSTICE
Jul 11 8:51 AM 47
RECEIVED-TAMM
RECEIVED-TAMM
FBI
U.S. DEPT. OF JUSTICE
Jul 15 8:59 AM 47
RECEIVED-TAMM
RECEIVED-TAMM
FBI
U.S. DEPT. OF JUSTICE
Jul 15 8:59 AM 47
RECEIVED-TAMM
RECEIVED-TAMM
FBI
U.S. DEPT. OF JUSTICE
Jul 15 8:59 AM 47
RECEIVED-TAMM
RECEIVED-TAMM
FBI
U.S. DEPT. OF JUSTICE
Jul 15 8:59 AM 47
RECEIVED-TAMM
RECEIVED-TAMM
FBI
U.S. DEPT. OF JUSTICE
Jul 15 8:59 AM 47
RECEIVED-TAMM
RECEIVED-TAMM
FBI
U.S. DEPT. OF JUSTICE
Jul 15 8:59 AM 47
RECEIVED-TAMM
RECEIVED-TAMM
FBI
U.S. DEPT. OF JUSTICE
Jul 15 8:59 AM 47
RECEIVED-TAMM
RECEIVED-TAMM
FBI
U.S. DEPT. OF JUSTICE
Jul 15 8:59 AM 47
RECEIVED-TAMM
RECEIVED-TAMM
FBI
U.S. DEPT. OF JUSTICE
Jul 15 8:59 AM 47
RECEIVED-TAMM
RECEIVED-TAMM
FBI
U.S. DEPT. OF JUSTICE
Jul 15 8:59 AM 47
RECEIVED-TAMM
RECEIVED-TAMM
FBI
U.S. DEPT. OF JUSTICE
Jul 15 8:59 AM 47
RECEIVED-TAMM
RECEIVED-TAMM
FBI
U.S.

Memorandum for Mr. Ladd
Mr. Reynolds also discussed this matter with Colonel L. R. Forney of MID. Colonel Forney indicated that it was his attitude that inasmuch as it has been established that the flying disks are not the result of any Army or Navy experiments, the matter is of interest to the FBI. He stated that he was of the opinion that the Bureau, if at all possible, should accede to General Schulgen's request.
SWR:AJB
<signature>

ADDENDUM
I would recommend that we advise the Army that the Bureau does not believe it should go into these investigations, it being noted that a great bulk of those alleged discs reported found have been pranks. It is not believed that the Bureau would accomplish anything by going into these investigations.
DML
<signature>
I think we should do this
7-15
{"box_2D": [56, 8, 936, 990], "text_content": "I would do it but before agreeing\nto it we must insist upon full access\nto discs recovered. For instance in\nthe La. case the Army grabbed it &\nwould not let us have it for cursory\nexamination"}
NO
July 30, 1947
Mr. George J. Pluskat
907 Seneca Avenue
Brooklyn 27, New York
Dear Mr. Pluskat:
RECORDED
RECORDED 62-83894-20
I desire to acknowledge receipt
I desire to acknowledge receipt of your letter dated July 14, 1947, and to express my appreciation to you for bringing this matter to my attention.
The information set forth in your letter has been carefully reviewed and is being maintained in this Bureau as a matter of record.
Sincerely yours,
John Edgar Hoover
Director
NOTE: Pluskat has been a previous correspondent with the Bu file 62-0-34750.
No record could be located in the Crime Records Section indication that the correspondent might be a mental case.
Mr. Tolson
Mr. E. A. Tamm
Mr. Clegg
Mr. Glavin
Mr. Ladd
Mr. Nichols
Mr. Rosen
Mr. Tracy
Mr. Carson
Mr. Egan
Mr. Gurnea
Mr. Harbo
Mr. Hendon
Mr. Pennington
Mr. Quinn Tamm
Mr. Nease
Miss Gandy
COMMUNICATIONS SECTION
MAILED 10
JUL 31 1947 P.M.
FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION
U. S. DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE
Zus Zus

gls
D
907 Seneca Ave.,
Brooklyn, 197, NY
July 14th, 1947.
Mr. J. Edgar Hoover, Chief, of the F.B.I.
Washington, D.C.
Dear Sir;
Please forgive me for taking up your time,with this item.It really isn't necessary.Yet,although everybodys tongue was wagging from the East and to the West coast,I couldn't resist putting my oar in.
Flying Saucers in the Sky.Heading for the Milky Way.Funny?I dont know.
We read and read and read."Sky Disc Derby Open to All"-"Calls "Saucers"Trick of Vision"-"Believe it or not,27 States see those flying saucers"-"Who saw the Saucers?40 States in the Game"-"Celestial Dishes sought between the Raindrops"-"Find 'Disk'is weather kite"-"Disks called chunks of Mirage"-"Report new Red Planes resemble 'Flying Saucers '".-Air-liner crew reports seeing 9 flying disks for 12 minutes".That's the way it went on,for days and days.
Please,dont remind me that this id a military problem.Soldiers fight the enemy out in the open and away from home if possible.The Federal Agents(the unsung heroes)fight the ememy under cover and in their home grounds.So.Here I am.
These so-called saucers may be kites,but according to reports,these things didn't flutter or float,they sailed and kites don't sail,the strangest part is, they all sailed in the same direction,from West to East.
Rewards were offered,no collectors.Planes chased them,none captured.They had to land,no finders.So.As long as the Military,Scientist and Civilians deny,being respomsible for this.Were does it lead to?An enemy.A little while back,it was mentioned somewhere that Russia had or has a contraption for their next war,em- itting sound(like a silent whistle for dogs)what it'skxx to do,th their enemy,I don't know.If a country was experimenting such a weapon,the brave people of the U.S.were not scared.They only informed the so-called enemy how successful they xkxx were.
It could be an optical illusion,or;supposing some unwelcomed persons,planted a few well chosen words,here and there and left the rest to an confused mind. These innocent people reporting the phenomena.
What confuses me is, that when we became too curious and determined to find out what they really are, those things disappeared and we found substitutes, called kites. These things resembling description as near as possible to the real thing. Why couldn't these things have been directed back home again like a homing pigeon?
To make sport of this thing,is bad taste.It sort of reminds me of the boy that cried WOLF.When the wolf really came.Twas sad.He,was a niceboy.There should be a law,against such jokes or experiments in the near future.They should be com in isekedavu,should be tried for treason,even;if the so-called joke seems less or ridicules.We can't take any chances.At this age,Time is slow.Man,is This POOH POOH business.is no joke.
I had in mind that the floods were responsible for these disks(mirages) the rushing waters of the Mississippi, Missouri, Platte, Columbia and Ohio Rivers. The sun going from East to West, plus the Catskill in the Easterly North, The Blue Ridge in the East and the Rocky Mountains in the West. Reflections, or whatever were, went from West to East. Hence the Disks? I hope so. 67-03001
RECORDED
62-83844
Respectfully Submitt
George O. Pluskat.
This image contains all the information on the document.
VECEA

MEMORANDUM FOR D. M. LADD
7/23/47

RECOMMENDATION
There is attached a Bureau Bulletin to the Field for their assistance in handling this matter.
Attachment

-2-
STANDARD FORM NO. 64

Office Memorandum

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT
TO : D. M. LADD <signature>
DATE: 7/24/47
Mr. Tolson
Mr. E.A. Tamm
Mr. Clegg
Mr. Coffey
FROM : E. G. Fitch <signature>
Mr. Glavin
Mr. Ladd
Mr. Nichols
SUBJECT: FLYING DISCS
Mr. Rosen
Mr. Tracy
Mr. Mohr
Mr. Carson
Reference is made to my memorandum to you in the above captioned matter dated July 10, 1947, indicating that Brigadier General George F. Schulgen of the Army Air Corps Intelligence had requested that the Bureau cooperate with the Army Air Corps Intelligence in connection with the above captioned matter. The Director noted on the referenced memorandum, "I would do it but before agreeing to it we must insist upon full access to discs recovered. For instance in the La. case the Army grabbed it and would not let us have it for cursory examination."
Mr. Hendon
Mr. Mumford
Mr. Jones
Mr. Quinn Tam
Tele. Room
Mr. Nease
Miss Candy
This is to advise that Special Agent Reynolds has recontacted General Schulgen and advised him in connection with the Director's notation. General Schulgen indicated to Mr. Reynolds that he desired to assure Mr. Hoover of complete cooperation in this matter and stated that he would issue instructions to the field directing that all cooperation be furnished to the FBI and that all discs recovered be made available for the examination by the FBI Agents. General Schulgen pointed out to Mr. Reynolds that he will from time to time make the results of the studies of his scientists available to the Bureau for the assistance of the FBI Field Offices. General Schulgen indicated to Mr. Reynolds that there has been a decrease in the reported sightings of the discs which might be because of the fact that it has lost much of its publicity value. He indicated, however, that he believed it necessary to follow this matter through to determine as near as possible if discs were in fact seen and to determine their origin.
General Schulgen inquired of Mr. Reynolds the method by which the Bureau would make the information obtained from the Bureau's inquiries, known to the Air Corps, in the Field as well as at the War Department level. Mr. Reynolds pointed out to General Schulgen that the best procedure appeared to be through the regular established channels. It was pointed out to General Schulgen that the Bureau Field Offices maintain close liaison with the Intelligence Divisions of the various Armies as well as close liaison with the Intelligence Division of the War Department. General Schulgen indicated that would be satisfied to receive information through this means.  62-8389
General Schulgen indicated to Mr. Reynolds that he believed that there was a possibility that this entire matter might have been started by subversive individuals for the purpose of creating a mass hysteria. He suggested that the Bureau keep this in mind in any interviews conducted regarding reported sightings. General Schulgen stated to Mr. Reynolds that he would make available to the Bureau all information in the possession of the Air Corps regarding the sightings which were first reported so that the Bureau could conduct some investigation regarding these individuals to ascertain their motives for reporting that they had observed flying discs. When General Schulgen makes the information available regarding these individuals, it will be promptly brought to your attention.
50 SEP 30 1947
SWRahr
252 COPIES DESTROYED
270 NOV 18 1964

STANDARD FORM NO. 64
287

Office Memorandum

•
TO : DIRECTOR, FBI
DATE: July 22, 1947
FROM : <signature> SAC, EL PASO
SUBJECT: Mrs. GWYNNE M. MERCHANT, Informant
FLYING OBJECTS IN AIR
<signature>
Alice
Mrs. GWYNNE M. MERCHANT has come to the resident agency at Santa Fe, New Mexico on several occasions to report that she has received information concerning flying objects passing through the air. Some of the reports that she has received concern light objects seen at night which have allegedly been followed by explosions. She advised that one of such objects was reported by FRANK BURTRAM, Forest Ranger, who works near Canjilon, New Mexico. She claims that others were seen near Park View and Tierra Amarilla, New Mexico.
Mrs. MERCHANT called attention to clippings from various newspapers concerning "disc-like" objects seen in New Mexico and other parts of the country.
Mrs. MERCHANT claims to be a student of radio waves and ray forms, and contends that the above mentioned objects may be missiles similar to those appearing over Sweden some time ago.
Jilly
Mrs. MERCHANT has discussed the above with officials of the Atomic Energy Commission, and has written the Secretary of War and other government officials concerning her theories. Mr. SIDNEY NEWBURGER, Chief of Security and Intelligence for the A.E.C., has advised that officials at Los Alamos consider Mrs. MERCHANT unreliable and possibly not well balanced mentally. She has mentioned to agents of this office that she was struck by lightning when a child.
On July 15, Mrs. MERCHANT came to the Santa Fe resident agency and advised that she had written to WALTER WINCHELL, promising him a story in connection with the "flying discs."
The foregoing information is being submitted to the Bureau, inasmuch as Mrs. MERCHANT has written to several government officials and Mr. WINCHELL.
62-0-3594c
FTM:GH

RECORDED 62-83894-37
INDEXED
38
EX 31
F B I
1 AUG 7 1947

Return
Card Made -np
B f <empty>
SEP 30 1947
25-2
B f
RECEIVED
LIAISON SECTION
MR. JONES
AUG 18 11:44 AM '4
RECEIVED
30 9 47 AM '47
RECEIVED
F B T IG 15 4 54 PM
RECEIVED
F.B.I.
FBI
S DEPT OF JUSTICE
5/18/503PM
INTERNAL SECURITY
F.B.I.
The type will be circled.
Office of Personnel Management

STANDARD FORM NO. 64

Office Memorandum

ADD
owE
G DISCS
llaneous
TO: D.M. LADD
FROM: K.C. Howe
SUBJECT: FLYING DISCS Miscellaneous
<signature>
9:50 PM
W. Harvey
DATE: July 7, 1947
9:50 PM

Mr. Tolson <empty>
Mr. E.A. Tamm <empty>
Mr. Clegg <empty>
Mr. Glavin <empty>
Mr. Ladd <empty>
Mr. Nichols <empty>
Mr. Rosen <empty>
Mr. Tracy <empty>
Mr. Carson <empty>
Mr. Egan <empty>
Mr. Gurnea <empty>
Mr. Harbo <empty>
Mr. Mohr <empty>
Mr. Pennington <empty>
Mr. Quinn Tamm <empty>
Tele. Room <empty>
Mr. Nease <empty>
Miss Holmes <empty>
Miss Gandy <empty>

<signature>
er discussed in the
reau was following
cs" which were being
SAC Weeks called from New Orleans on the matter discussed in the attached teletype. He wanted to know what policy the Bureau was following in connection with reports concerning these "flying discs" which were being received.
- **Entities:** Miss Holmes, Miss Gandy
- **Context:** A handwritten annotation, likely a name or note, is present above and partially obscuring "Miss Gandy". The text discusses "flying discs" and the FBI's jurisdiction.
I told Mr. Weeks that, unless advised to the contrary, he should, in the particular case at hand, allow G-2 to handle and not take any jurisdiction for the FBI. He was told the Bureau would be interested in being kept advised of developments, and in copies of the photographs he said G-2 would make of the object found, but that he should not allow himself to be jockeyed into a position where investigative responsibility, if any were entailed, would fall on us. Mr. Weeks said he would so handle unless I called him back immediately with instructions for specific action.
As you will recall, I called you concerning the foregoing.
RECORDED
- **RECORDED**
- **62-838967**
- **32 AUG 6 1947**
- **Signature:** "J. Ketch" (or similar)
- **Number:** "212"
162-83894-38
FBI
32 AUG 6 1947
KCH#h
The image contains a close-up of a handwritten signature or doodle on a textured, off-white background. The mark consists of dark gray or black lines. It appears to be an abstract form with curved and straight elements.
The image contains a handwritten signature. The text surrounding the image reads "90CT 2 19472/2".
=3OCT2
RECEIVED
OCT 11 31 PM '47
TECHNICAL LABORATORY
FBI
S. DEPT. OF JUSTICE
RECEIVED
JUL 8 4 36 PM '47

RECEIVED-TAXM
FBI
U.S. DEPT. OF JUSTICE

INTERNAL SECURITY
F.B.I.
DEPT. OF JUSTICE

JUL 8 9 17 AM '47
RECEIVED
LIAISON SECTION
30 2 48 PM 47
FBI
DEPT. OF JUSTICE
2020

CONFIDENTIAL
COPY
DECLASSIFIED
Authority:
NND 90986

UNIDENTIFIABLE OBJECTS
Williams Field, Chandler
Arizona
7 July 1947
MEMORANDUM FOR THE OFFICER IN CHARGE:
1. On 1 July 1947, Lt William G. McGinty, USN, 195803, P-80 Student, Williams Field, Chandler, Arizona, was interviewed by this Agent, and stated in substance: That on 30 June 1947, at about 0910, MST, he was flying at 25,000 feet over Grand Canyon, Arizona, in a P-80 type aircraft. He stated that he was heading south towards Williams Field, Ariz., when he saw two round objects going at inconceivable speeds, straight down. He further stated that his reactions were to turn away from the objects. He further stated that one of the unidentifiable objects followed the other seconds apart. He further stated that due to the speed of the objects, he could only see that they were circular, and that they were possible light gray in color. He further stated that it was his opinion that the objects were approximately eight feet in diameter. In conclusion, he stated that the objects would have probably hit the ground approximately twenty-five miles south of the South Rim of Grand Canyon, Arizona.
AGENT'S NOTES: Lt McGinty gave his' permanent address as: N.A.M.T.C., Point Hugu, Port Hueneme, Calif.
2. On 1 July 1947, Captain Malcolm G. Armstrong, 0-734168, Instructor, Single Engine, Williams Field, Chandler, Arizona, was interviewed by this Agent and stated in substance: That his brother 1st Lt E. B. Armstrong, stationed at Hq, 10th AAF, Brooks AAF, Texas had related to him that he saw a formation of unexplainable objects in the vicinity of Lake Mead, Nev. Captain Armstrong, further stated that his brother stated the objects were heading south, and were at approximately 10,000 feet altitude.
AGENT'S NOTES: Captain Armstrong could not give too much information on the objects that his brother had seen. Lt. E. B. Armstrong can be contacted at Hq, 10th AAF, Brooks Field, Texas for further information.
47/9
RECORDED
&
INDEXED
Fletcher

62-83894-38X

Lynn C. Aldrich, Special Agent, CIC AAF, FDTRC F B I
15 NOV 5 1947

THIS IS A TRUE COPY
/s/ John K. Orr,
JOHN K. ORR, Major, A.C.

Reynolds
EX-4

RECEIVED
18 5 57 bW
18 S2

RECEIVED
FBI

CONFIDENTIAL
Date: August 1, 1947
To : Director of Intelligence
War Department General Staff
The Pentagon
Washington 25, D. C.
The image contains the text "PERSONAL AND CONFIDENTIAL" with a signature and a date. The signature appears to be "dedampful" or similar. The date is "8/31/77". There is also a "10" written next to the signature.
Attention: Colonel L. R. Forney, Chief, Security Group
From : John Edgar Hoover, Director - Federal Bureau of Investigation
Subject : MRS. ARTHUR DOUGLASS ANDERSON
There are attached hereto copies of a letter received from the above-captioned individual concerning "flying saucers."
Mrs. Anderson's letter has been acknowledged and she has been advised that copies of her letter have been furnished to you for your consideration.
- Mr. Tolson
Mr. E. A. Tamm
Mr. Clegg
Mr. Glavin
Mr. Ladd
Mr. Nichols
Mr. Rosen
Mr. Tracy
Mr. Carson
Mr. Egan
Mr. Gurnea
Mr. Harbo
Mr. Hendon
Mr. Pennington
Mr. Quinn Tamm
Mr. Nease
Miss Gandy
Attachment
WVC:mjp
m
58 AUG 131947
**Key Information:**

*   **Date:** AUG 7 1940
*   **Time:** 4:17 PM
*   **Identifier:** 62-8389-39
*   **Entity:** FBI
*   **Status:** RECORDED, INDEXED
*   **Other Markings:** "To her", "m/d", "37", "pci", "HP"
The Department of Health and Human Services
Treadwell, Charles, formerly of 13 Lee, MD, now deceased
adidas Originals Inherit Label - red/black sneaker with white sole
KARLSSON, GUNILLA, SIRENA, 2009-04-02
"and A. D. surface model A To aligno closed barbells and arnill"
".arizona ariz" alabama Earlobular Serologic-Std
PE
<table></table>

CARBON COPY
FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION
U. S. DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE
COMMUNICATIONS SECTION
| Mr. Tolson<br />Mr. R. A. Tanim<br />Mr. Clegg<br />Mr. Glavin<br />Mr. Ladd.<br />Mr. Nichols<br />Mr. Rosen<br />Mr. Tracy<br />Mr. Bana   |
|-|
| Mr. Gornon                                                                                                                                   |
| Mr. Harbo<br />Mr. Mohr                                                                                                                      |
| Mr. Ponnington                                                                                                                               |
| Mr. Quinn Tamm                                                                                                                               |

AUG 6 1947

TELETYPE
Fletcher
FBI PORTLAND 8-5-47 8-50 PM WIS
CHECK DIRECTOR AND SACS SEATTLE AND SAN FRANCISCO U R C E N T
Miss Gendy
Baumgarten
FLYING DISCS, SPLASH X. RE TELEPHONE CALL FROM MR. LADD, ONE PM TODAY REQUESTING TELETYPe SUMMARY CONCERNING NEWSPAPER REPORTS OF RECENT REPORTED FLYING DISCS IN PORTLAND AREA AND A REPORTED CONFERENCE OF ARMY OFFICIALS IN PORTLAND CONCERNING FLYING DISCS. LEAVERITT G. RICHARDS, AVIATION EDITOR THE OREGONIAN, ADVISED THAT A CAPTAIN WILLIAM L. DAVIDSON AND LT. FRANK M. BROWN OF FOURTH AAF HEADQUARTERS, SAN FRANCISCO WERE IN PORTLAND JULY TWENTYSEVEN LAST AND INTERVIEWED DICK RANKIN, AN EXPERIENCED PILOT, WHO HAD REPORTED JUNE FOURTEEN LAST SEEING A FORMATION OF TEN FLYING DISCS OVER BAKERS- FIELD, CALIF. ACCORDING TO RICHARDS THEY HAD ALSO INTERVIEWED FOLLOWING FOUR EXPERIENCED PILOTS WHO WERE AMONG FIRST WHO REPORTED SEEING DISCS - KENNETH ARNOLD, BUSINESS MAN, BOISE, IDAHO, CAPTAIN E. J. SMITH AND CO-PILOT RALPH STEVENS, UNITED AIRLINES, AND DAVE JOHNSON, AVIATION EDITOR, IDAHO STATESMAN, TO ASCERTAIN THE PURPOSE OF THINTERVEWS RICHARDS CONTACTED MAJOR GENERAL TWINING OF WRIGHT FIELD, OHIO BY PHONE AT ALBUQUERQUE, NM, AND FROM HIM GAINED THE IMPRESSION THAT THE AAF INSTITUTED THIS INVESTIGATION TO WASH OUT THE DISC REPORTS, SINCE THEY ARE DEFINITELY NOT OF AAF ORIGIN. ON FRIDAY, AUGUST FIRST, THE PLANE IN WHICH AAF INVESTIGATORS CAPTAIN DAVIDSON AND LT. BROWN WERE RIDING, CRASHED AT KELSO, WASH. AND BOTH
RECEIVED
6 10 35 AM
INTERNAL SECURITY
F.B.I.
RECEIVED
P 15 901 AM '44
INTERNAL SECURITY
F. B. I.
DEPT. OF JUST
JETEXJET
GAWAIIKICLIONS ZEOLICH
I
PAGE TWO
WERE KILLED. THE WRECKAGE WAS SCREENED BY AAF INTELLIGENCE FROM MCCHORD FIELD. THE TACOMA NEWS TRIBUNE AND THROUGH THEM THE UNITED PRESS PUT OUT A STORY THE PLANE WAS CARRYING PARTS OF A DISC WHICH HAD STRUCK A BOAT OWNED BY HAROLD DAHL AND FRED CRISMAN, TACOMA, WN. RICHARDS ADVISED THAT TODAYS ISSUE OF THE OREGONIAN CARRIES A UP STORY STATING THAT DAHL DENIES SAYING THE METAL FRAGMENTS HE FURNISHED WERE FROM A DISC, AND ANALYSIS OF THE FRAGMENTS SHOWS THEM TO BE FROM A TACOMA SLAC MILL. NO AAF INTELLIGENCE PERSONNEL AVAILABLE PORTLAND. NO RECENT SUBSTANTIVE REPORTS OF FLYING DISCS IN THE PORTLAND AREA. SEATTLE VERIFY AT MCCHORD FIELD AND SAN FRANCISCO VERIFY AT AAF HDQRTS. SF, SUBMITTING TELETEYPE SUMMARIES TO THE BUREAU. NO FURTHER INVESTIGATION PORTLAND.
BOBBITT
END AND ACK
WA 0157AM OK FBI WA DW
SE
S OK FBI SE KLS
SF OK FBI SF NCW
DVIMSC
8/6/47
Zak/
CC Mr. Ladd.
RECEIVED TELETYPE UNIT
Aug 6 100 AM '47
A story about a boat owned by a man and his wife. The story was written by a man named John. The story was set in the 1950s. The story was about a man who was trying to find his way back to his home. The story was about a man who was trying to find his way back to his home. The story was about a man who was trying to find his way back to his home. The story was about a man who was trying to find his way back to his home. The story was about a man who was trying to find his way back to his home. The story was about a man who was trying to find his way back to his home. The story was about a man who was trying to find his way back to his home. The story was about a man who was trying to find his way back to his home. The story was about a man who was trying to find his way back to his home. The story was about a man who was trying to find his way back to his home. The story was about a man who was trying to find his way back to his home. The story was about a man who was trying to find his way back to his home. The story was about a man who was trying to find his way back to his home. The story was about a man who was trying to find his way back to his home. The story was about a man who was trying to find his way back to his home. The story was about a man who was trying to find his way back to his home. The story was about a man who was trying to find his way back to his home. The story was about a man who was trying to find his way back to his home. The story was about a man who was trying to find his way back to his home. The story was about a man who was trying to find his way back to his home. The story was about a man who was trying to find his way back to his home. The story was about a man who was trying to find his way back to his home. The story was about a man who was trying to find his way back to his home. The story was about a man who was trying to find his way back to his home. The story was about a man who was trying to find his way back to his home. The story was about a man who was trying to find his way back to his home. The story was about a man who was
DIRECTOR
T. OF JUSTIC
6.18 AM '47
INTERNAL SECURITY
B.J.
JUN 28 1989
9:02 AM, 15
RECEIVED
F. B. I.
INTERNAL SECURITY
JG 15 26 PM 47
RECEIVED
FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION
U. S. DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE
COMMUNICATIONS SECTION
AUG 6 1947
TELETYPE
Flache
<table><tr><th></th><th>Mr. Tolson.</th></tr><tr><td>E</td><td>Mr. M. A. Tamm.</td></tr><tr><td></td><td>Mr. Clegg</td></tr><tr><td></td><td>Mr. Glavi....</td></tr><tr><td></td><td>Mr. Ladd.</td></tr><tr><td></td><td>Mr. Nichols.</td></tr><tr><td></td><td>Mr. Roson</td></tr><tr><td></td><td>Mr. Trasy</td></tr><tr><td></td><td>Mr. an</td></tr><tr><td></td><td>Mr. Gemon</td></tr><tr><td></td><td>Mr. Marko</td></tr><tr><td></td><td>Mr. Mohr</td></tr><tr><td></td><td>Mr. Pennington.....</td></tr><tr><td></td><td>Mr. Quinn Tamm.</td></tr><tr><td></td><td>Mr. Nease.</td></tr><tr><td></td><td>Miss Gandy</td></tr></table>
FBI PORTLAND
8-5-47
8-50 PM
HHS
DIRECTOR AND SACS SEATTLE AND SAN FRANCISCO URGENT
FLYING DISCS, SM DASH X. RE TELEPHONE CALL FROM MR. LADD, ONE PM TODAY REQUESTING TELETYPe SUMMARY CONCERNING NEWSPAPER REPORTS OF RECENT REPORTED FLYING DISCS IN PORTLAND AREA AND A REPORTED CONFERENCE OF ARMY OFFICIALS IN PORTLAND CONCERNING FLYING DISCS. LEAVERITT G. RICHARDS, AVIATION EDITOR THE OREGONIAN, ADVISED THAT A CAPTAIN
WILLIAM L. DAVIDSON AND LT. FRANK M. BROWN OF FOURTH AAF HEADQUARTER SAN FRANCISCO WERE IN PORTLAND JULY TWENTYSEVEN LAST AND INTERVIEWED DICK RANKIN, AN EXPERIENCED PILOT, WHO HAD REPORTED JUNE FOURTEEN LAST SEEING A FORMATION OF TEN FLYING DISCS OVER BAKERS-
FIELD, CALIF. ACCORDING TO RICHARDS THEY HAD ALSO INTERVIEWED FOLLOWING FOUR EXPERIENCED PILOTS WHO WERE AMONG FIRST WHO REPORTED SEEING DISCS - KENNETH ARNOLD, BUSINESS MAN, BOISE, IDAHO, CAPTAIN E. J. SMITH AND CO-PILOT RALPH STEVENS, UNITED AIRLINES, AND DAVE
I.
JOHNSON, AVIATION EDITOR, IDAHO STATESMAN. TO
RECORDED
PURPOSE OF THINTERVIEWS RICHARDS CONTACTED MAJOR
INDEXED
OF WRIGHT FIELD, OHIO BY PHONE AT ALBUQUERQUE,
127
GAINED THE IMPRESSION THAT THE AAF INSTITUTE
EX-30
WASH OUT THE DISC REPORTS, SINCE THEY ARE DEFIN
SMAN.
RECORDED
ASCERTAIN THE
62-83894-43
R GENERAL TWINING
INDEXED
PI
ON FRIDAY, AUGUST FIRST, THE PLANE IN WHICH AAF INVESTIGATORS CAPTAIN DAVIDSON AND LT. BROWN WERE RIDING, CRASHED AT KELSO, WASH. AND BOTH
COPIES DESTROYED
270 NOV 18 1964
RECEIVED-TAMM
FBI
U.S. DEPT. OF JUSTICE
Aug 6 9 18 AM 47
RECEIVED
AUG 15 2 26 PM '47
INTERNAL SECURITY
F. B. I.
DEPT. OF JUSTICE
RECEIVED
SEP 15 9:01 AM
INTERNAL SECURITY
F. B. I.
DEPT. OF JUST
INTERLAB
June 6, 1851
CHAMPIONSHIPS SECTION

STANDARD FORM NO. 64

Office Memorandum • UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

TO : D. M. LADD <signature>
FROM : E. G. Fitch <signature>
SUBJECT: FLYING SAUCERS
DATE: August 6, 1947
Special Agent S.W. Reynolds of the Liaison Section contacted Lieutenant Colonel C. P. Martin, Army Air Forces Intelligence, inquiring about an article which appeared in the West Coast newspapers recently stating in substance that an airplane carrying recovered flying saucers crashed in route from Portland, Oregon, to Los Angeles, California.
Mr. Tolson: 
Mr. E. A. Tamm: 
Mr. Clegg: 
Mr. Glavin: 
Mr. Ladd: 
Mr. Nichols: 
Mr. Rosen: 
Mr. Tracy: 
Mr. Carson: 
Mr. Egan: 
Mr. Gurnea: 
Mr. Harbo: 
Mr. Mohr: 
Mr. Pennington: 
Mr. Quinn Tamm: 
Tele. Room: 
Mr. Nease: 
Miss Holmes: 
Miss Gandy:
Colonel Martin advised Mr. Reynolds that the only information that has been received by Headquarters of the Army Air Forces is that a CIC Agent of the 4th Air Force Headquarters, Hamilton Field, San Francisco, was killed in an airplane crash. The Headquarters of the Air Forces have been advised that he was on a top secret mission. Colonel Martin indicated that he was under the impression that the CIC Agent was either on route to or from an interview with Mr. Arnold who is one of the individuals who first saw one of the flying saucers.
) - 1/20 new
RECORDED
Colonel Martin stated that the Air Fo
and will receive none until the report is receive
Colonel Martin suggested that the San Francisco
Colonel Martin suggested that the San Francisco Field Office contact Colonel Springer, Headquarters 4th Air Force, Hamilton Field, San Francisco, who undoubtedly would be able to furnish the details regarding this matter which are at this time unknown by the Headquarters of the Air Forces. Colonel Martin pointed out to Mr. Reynolds, however, that it was his belief that no flying saucers have been recovered but that it was merely an attempt to reinteriew an individual who previously had reported seeing one of the flying saucers.
SWR:rhr
R-34
M. I. R. - 9
8/6/47
<signature>
<signature>
2 AUG 19 1947
243
RECEIVED
LIAISON SECTION
18 9 18 AM '47
FBI
DEPT. OF JUSTICE
JUSTICE
RECEIVED-TMHH.
AUG 6 11:01 AM 97
BY P
RECEIVED
UG 15 4:38 PM, 4/7
INTERNAL SECURITY
F. B. L.
Robert J. Sroka
469 N. Washington Ave.
Waukesha, Wis.
Federal Bureau of Investigation
Flying Arrows
Gentlemen;
Recently I have heard and read about reports of disc-shaped aircraft, or whatever they are, in our western regions. They reminded me of a nearly forgotten incident in Germany, after the war. I report this to you because I feel this may be of international scope.
My buddy and I went on pass to see a friend of his. One evening the three of us were driving along some back roads when I sighted a strange looking object in the sky from eight to ten miles to our front and approx-imatly 5,000 feet high.
I immediately stopped the jeep for a better look. The object rapidly came toward us, descending slowly. About a mile away it stopped it's horizontal motion but continued a slow oscillating descent, similar to a descending parachute. Then suddenly it dropped in a spiral motion.
Immediately I drove over to where it had dropped. It took almost five minutes to reach the place but we saw nothing. After ten minutes of cruising around the area it became too dark to see so we went back to town.
rec
I am not sure my companions saw this it happened so quickly it could easily have been missed, but I described what I had seen so vividly that they were as excited as I was. My first impression was that it was a cloud but it was traveling at right angles to the wind.
wind. FBI
The local of this incident was approximately 20 miles north-west of Habberbishopshiem. If necessary, I will swear to the authenticity of this and to the shape of the object.
and to the s
ack to War Dept
WVC 2/5/47
2 to 6p.m.
Sincerely Yours,

Robert J. Sroka
G.I.R.9

.ova mith in the W. USA
india

Investigation To Gerald Darbel
I have been and am now under the care of a physician who has advised me to discontinue the use of all forms of tobacco. I have been smoking for over 40 years and have tried every method known to me to quit smoking, including nicotine patches, gum, and lozenges. I have also tried hypnosis, acupuncture, and other alternative therapies. I have been unsuccessful in quitting smoking despite my efforts. I am now seeking help from a licensed professional to assist me in quitting smoking for good.
I was driving home from school and I saw a friend of mine on the side of the road. I stopped to see if he was okay and he told me he had a flat tire. I helped him change the tire and then we went to get something to eat. I really enjoyed my time with him and I hope we can hang out again sometime.
The object of this book is to present a complete and systematic account of the principles and practice of the art of teaching. It is not intended to be a text-book for the use of teachers, but rather a guide for those who are interested in the subject, and who wish to know more about it. The author has had many years of experience in the field of education, and has written numerous articles and books on the subject. He is well qualified to write on this subject, and his book is sure to be of great value to all who are interested in the art of teaching.
I am almost lost if I go over the edge of the world. I have been here for a long time and I am not sure where I am. I have seen strange things and I am not sure what they mean. I have been told that I am not supposed to be here and I am not sure if that is true. I have been told that I am not supposed to be here and I am not sure if that is true. I have been told that I am not supposed to be here and I am not sure if that is true. I have been told that I am not supposed to be here and I am not sure if that is true. I have been told that I am not supposed to be here and I am not sure if that is true. I have been told that I am not supposed to be here and I am not sure if that is true. I have been told that I am not supposed to be here and I am not sure if that is true. I have been told that I am not supposed to be here and I am not sure if that is true. I have been told that I am not supposed to be here and I am not sure if that is true. I have been told that I am not supposed to be here and I am not sure if that is true. I have been told that I am not supposed to be here and I am not sure if that is true. I have been told that I am not supposed to be here and I am not sure if that is true. I have been told that I am not supposed to be here and I am not sure if that is true. I have been told that I am not supposed to be here and I am not sure if that is true. I have been told that I am not supposed to be here and I am not sure if that is true. I have been told that I am not supposed to be here and I am not sure if that is true. I have been told that I am not supposed to be here and I am not sure if that is true. I have been told that I am not supposed to be here and I am not sure if that is true. I have been told that I am not supposed to be here and I am not sure if that is true. I have been told that I am not supposed to be here and I am not sure if that is true. I have been told that I am not supposed to be here and I am not sure if that is true. I have been told that
to iron-iron sold US off Mexico
it to whichever end of I
RECEIVED
JUL 11 5 10 PM 47
INTERNAL SECURITY
F.B.I.
DEPT. OF JUSTICE
and so on
H2
L-26
Invoice of Contents from
FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION
WASHINGTON, D. C.
Date: 9-10-47
Case References: Flying Saucer
Consigned to: Mrs. J. H. Mixon
Route 1, Box 30
Estill, South Carolina

List of Contents
Powered Soap Stone.
X-13-47
G-13-47
Mr. Harbo, 7641: <empty>
Mr. Conrad, 7142: <empty>
Mr. Downing, 7632: <empty>
Mr. Sizoo, 7601: <empty>
Mr. Baughman, 7121: <empty>
COMMUNICATIONS SECTION
REGISTERED MAIL
MAILED 7
SEP 13 1947 P. M.
REGISTERED
497251
62-83894-
INVOICE OF BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION
WASHINGTON, D. C.
Date: <empty> Case References: <empty> 

Consigned to: <empty> 

<empty> 

List of Contents
Mr. Forbes, 7644
Mr. Conrad, 7745
Mr. Downing, 7882
Mr. Sisson, 7601
Mr. Enggass, 7151
MAILED
SEP 13 1947 P.M.
THERAPY
domestic order no
RECORDED
Date:
Date: 62-83894-41 August 5, 1947
To: Director of Intelligence
War Department General Staff
The Pentagon
Washington 25, D. C.
<signature>
<signature>
<signature>
CONFIDENTIAL
BY SPECIAL MESSENGER
Attention: Colonel L. R. Forney, Chief, Security Group
From: John Edgar Hoover - Director, Federal Bureau of Investigation
Subject: ROBERT J. SROKA
There are attached hereto copies of a letter received from the above-captioned individual concerning "flying discs."
je
Mr. Sroka's letter has been acknowledged and he has been advised that copies of his letter have been furnished to you for your consideration.
Attachment
Mr. Tolson: 
Mr. E. A. Tamm: 
Mr. Clegg: 
Mr. Glavin: 
Mr. Ladd: 
Mr. Nichols: 
Mr. Rosen: 
Mr. Tracy: 
Mr. Carson: 
Mr. Egan: 
Mr. Gurnea: 
Mr. Harbo: 
Mr. Hendon: 
Mr. Pennington: 
Mr. Quinn Tamm: 
Mr. Nease: 
Miss Gandy:
COMMUNICATIONS SECTION
jp:rb Spee Men
AUG -7 1947 PM
FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION
U. S. DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE
R344
263
c
Aug 6 12:28 PM up
28 PM 'up
DINING
Café
12/12/85
one or to 1000 10

rogadan on
10 badgaldse
07
quand viendront ,troupes ,canons ,et ,I'armée" ,motus
cette,idee,si la preuve l'accompagne - revoilà ,signé ,moi,
and won't bevetor relief a to calgoo stored bejopite ans staff.
Shenzhen
RECEIVED-MAIL 800
FBI
6 4 20 PM 6/12/70
<table></table>

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION
CC-150
UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE
To: COMMUNICATIONS SECTION.
AUGUST 7, 1947
Transmit the following message to:
SAC, DETROIT "URGENT"
UNSUBS, RAYMOND EDWARD LANE, MRS. LAURA LANE, INFORMANTS, FLYING DISC, MISC.
REURT EL AUGUST 5 MATERIAL SHOULD NOT BE FORWARDED TO FBI LABORATORY FOR EXAMINATION BUT SHOULD BE TURNED OVER TO THE ARMY AIRFORCE INTELLIGENCE.
HO OVER
RGF:mae
RECEIVED READING JO
AUG 7 7:38 PM
RECORDED
FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION
U. S. DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE
COMMUNICATIONS SECTION
62-83894-1840
AUG 7 1947
36 AUG 11 1947
Mr. Tolson: 
Mr. S. A. Tamm: 
Mr. Clegg: 
Mr. Olavin: 
Mr. Ladd: 
Mr. Nichols: 
Mr. Rosen: 
Mr. Tracy: 
Mr. Carson: 
Mr. Egan: 
Mr. Gurnea: 
Mr. Harbo: 
Mr. Hendon: 
Mr. Pennington: 
Mr. Quinlan Tamm: 
Mr. Nease: 
Miss Gandy:
COPIES DESTROYED
TELETYPE
270 NOV 18 1964
58 AUG 13 1942
SENT VIA
828
Per #
INVESTIGATION
COMMUNICATIONS SECTION
The following message
CHARTERED ACCOUNTANTS
TARI S GUA
TEREZA
ПСУХОЛАПІВНИКОВ
З.О. - МОЛДАВСЬКА
THERAPY

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION
U. S. DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE
COMMUNICATIONS SECTION
e
| Mr, Tolson.<br />Mr. B. A. Tomm.....<br />Regg<br />Glavia<br />Ladd.<br />Nichols<br />Rosen<br />Tenoy<br /><br />Gurnea<br />Harbo<br />Fr. Mohr<br />Mr. Ponnington.   |
|-|
AUG 4 1947

TELETYPE
WASHINGTON 1 FROM NEWARK 8-4-47 5-36 PM EDST JFG

DIRECTOR URGENT

1 FLYING DISC REPORTED AT HACKENSACK, NJ AUGUST THREE, NINETEEN FORTY SEVEN, MISC. INFORMATION RECEIVED THAT CHARLES CASELLA, JR. AGE 

AGE TWENTY, TWO EIGHT SEVEN EUCLID AVENUE, HACKENSACK AND WILLIAM TRUEX, US ARMY, FT. DIX, NJ ON LATE AFTERNOON AUGUST THIRD LAST SIGHTED FROM GROUND OBJECT DESCRIBED AS FLYING DISC. CASELLA CLAIMED IT WAS TWO HUNDRED YDS, IN AIR, REVOLVING SLOWLY, MOVING RAPIDLY, AND
NEITHER A KITE
ENSACK PD. INC
252 MC KEE
END ACK PLS
NK R 1 WA
NOR A BALLOON. CASELL
QUIRY BEING MADE, BUREA
A TELEPHONED INFORMATION TO HACK-
U WILL BE KEPT ADVISED.
ECORDED 162-83894 + 44
FBI
29 AUG 11 19

EX-46
Aug 4 8 07 PM '47
RECEIVED-LADD
FBI
U S DEPT OF JUSTICE
RECEIVED TELETYPe UNIT
AUG 4 5 37 PM '47
F.B.I. DEPT. OF JUSTICE
RECEIVED
LIAISON SECTION
RECEIVED
5 2 03 PM 47
FBI
DEPT. OF JUSTICE
FBI
DEPT. OF JUSTICE
5 10 28 AM
INTERNAL SECURITY
5 10 28 AM
RECEIVED

STANDARD FORM NO. 64

Office Memorandum
UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

TO: Director, FBI
DATE: August 8, 1947
FROM: SAC, Norfolk
<signature>
SUBJECT: FLYING DISCS
m2
Re Bureau Bulletin No. 42, dated July 30, 1947, Series 1947, wherein information is set forth pertaining to flying discs.
There is enclosed with this letter a newspaper clipping from the "Norfolk Ledger-Dispatch", dated July 9, 1947. The photograph appearing on this clipping is alleged to represent a flying disc which was observed by BILLY TURRENTINE, a Norfolk school boy, who was successful in photographing the object with his small camera.
BILLY was interviewed on August 8, 1947 by Special Agent (A) THOMAS J. CONNOR, at which time BILLY informed that the original negative was given by him to a Mr. BROWN of the Photo Craftsman Service, who in turn furnished the negative to the International News Service. BILLY advised that he has an agreement with Mr. BROWN whereby the latter will share equally in any profits derived from the use of the negative by commercial firms or newspapers. As of August 8, 1947 BILLY has not received any remuneration for the use of this negative.
R
He informed that he was sitting on the front porch of his apartment which is located on the third floor at 410 West 14th Street, Norfolk, Virginia, around noontime on July 8, 1947. He had read numerous newspaper articles pertaining to flying discs and decided to sit on his front porch in the hopes of seeing one and attempting to photograph it. On July 8, 1947 BILLY observed a large, black object moving rapidly through space proceeding from the southwest to a northeast direction. He said the black object was followed by two smaller objects which also proceeded in the same direction. BILLY explained that the objects were moving at a very fast speed which appeared to him to be much faster than the speed of an airplane, and further, that the objects appeared to be extremely high. He said that they were much higher than the average plane travels in the City of Norfolk and appeared to be above the clouds, and that a white mist followed each of the three objects. BILLY was unable to state what the black objects represented, but admitted that they could have been large balloons. He indicated that he has observed small, toy balloons flying through the air, but that definitely these were not the toy type balloons. He said that when he first observed the objects they were at such a great distance from him that it was not necessary that he raise his head in order to see them from his porch on the third floor of the apartment building. He immediately turned around to obtain
R.-9
K
K
ENGL
80 OCT 4- 1947
COPIES DESTROYED
270 NOV 18 1964
#29
RECORDED
INDEXED
38
tain
1947
DATE: August 8, 1947
TO : Director, FBI
FROM : SAC, Norfolk
SUBJECT: FLYING DISCS
Scries I947, wherein information is set forth pertaining to 25 .Minute Bulletin No. 42, issued July 30, 1947.
There is enclosed with this letter a newspaper clipping from the "Norfolk Ledger-Herald" of July 8, 1947. The photograph appearing on this clipping is alleged to represent a flying disc which was observed by BILLY TUNSTELL, a Norfolk school boy, who was successful in photographing the object with his camera.
IrisaS of TAP, & JAGUA no bewarmenti see XIX. was interviewed on August 8, 1977 and JAIL BARTNI XIX time which at which , RONOR, & SAMMY (A) agent of THOMS & COMPANY who in turn was given by him to a MRS. ARNOLD who in turn was given to the original negative was given by him to the photo lab of which he was an agent - see - he was an agent of the negative and was paid for the service. BILLY advised that he was an agent of the negative and was paid for the service. Informational News Service who in turn was given by him to the photo lab of which he was an agent - see - he was an agent of the negative and was paid for the service. BILLY advised that he was an agent of the negative and was paid for the service. Informational News Service who in turn was given by him to the photo lab of which he was an agent - see - he was an agent of the negative and was paid for the service. BILLY advised that he was an agent of the negative and was paid for the service. Informational News Service who in turn was given by him to the photo lab of which he was an agent - see - he was an agent of the negative and was paid for the service. BILLY advised that he was an agent of the negative and was paid for the service. Informational News Service who in turn was given by him to the photo lab of which he was an agent - see - he was an agent of the negative and was paid for the service. BILLY advised that he was an agent of the negative and was paid for the service. Informational News Service who in turn was given by him to the photo lab of which he was an agent - see - he was an agent of the negative and was paid for the service. BILLY advised that he was an agent of the negative and was paid for the service. Informational News Service who in turn was given by him to the photo lab of which he was an agent - see - he was an agent of the negative and was paid for the service. BILLY advised that he was an agent of the negative and was paid for the service. Informational News Service who in turn was given by him to the photo lab of which he was an agent - see - he was an agent of the negative and was
RECEIVED
RECEIVED
LIAISON SECTION
RECEIVED
RECEIVED
RECEIVED
RECEIVED
RECEIVED
RECEIVED
RECEIVED
RECEIVED
RECEIVED
RECEIVED
RECEIVED
RECEIVED
RECEIVED
RECEIVED
RECEIVED
RECEIVED
RECEIVED
RECEIVED
RECEIVED
RECEIVED
RECEIVED
RECEIVED
RECEIVED
RECEIVED
RECEIVED
RECEIVED
RECEIVED
RECEIVED
RECEIVED
RECEIVED
RECEIVED
RECEIVED
RECEIVED
RECEIVED
RECEIVED
RECEIVED
RECEIVED
RECEIVED
RECEIVED
RECEIVED
RECEIVED
RECEIVED
RECEIVED
RECEIVED
RECEIVED
RECEIVED
RECEIVED
RECEIVED
RECEIVED
RECEIVED
RECEIVED
RECEIVED
RECEIVED
RECEIVED
RECEIVED
RECEIVED
RECEIVED
RECEIVED
RECEIVED
RECEIVED
RECEIVED
RECEIVED
RECEIVED
RECEIVED
RECEIVED
RECEIVED
RECEIVED
RECEIVED
RECEIVED
RECEIVED
RECEIVED
RECEIVED
RECEIVED
RECEIVED
RECEIVED
RECEIVED
RECEIVED
RECEIVED
RECEIVED
RECEIVED
RECEIVED
RECEIVED
RECEIVED
RECEIVED
RECEIVED
RECEIVED
RECEIVED
RECEIVED
RECEIVED
RECEIVED
RECEIVED
RECEIVED
RECEIVED
RECEIVED
RECEIVED
RECEIVED
RECEIVED
RECEIVED
RECEIVED
RECEIVED
RECEIVED
RECEIVED
RECEIVED
RECEIVED
RECEIVED
RECEIVED
RECEIVED
RECEIVED
RECEIVED
RECEIVED
RECEIVED
RECEIVED
RECEIVED
RECEIVED
RECEIVED
RECEIVED
RECEIVED
RECEIVED
RECEIVED
RECEIVED
RECEIVED
RECEIVED
RECEIVED
RECEIVED
RECEIVED
RECEIVED
RECEIVED
RECEIVED
RECEIVED
RECEIVED
RECEIVED
RECEIVED
RECEIVED
RECEIVED
RECEIVED
RECEIVED
RECEIVED
RECEIVED
RECEIVED
RECEIVED
RECEIVED
RECEIVED
RECEIVED
RECEIVED
RECEIVED
RECEIVED
RECEIVED
RECEIVED
RECEIVED
RECEIVED
RECEIVED
RECEIVED
RECEIVED
RECEIVED
RECEIVED
RECEIVED
RECEIVED
RECEIVED
RECEIVED
RECEIVED
RECEIVED
RECEIVED
RECEIVED
RECEIVED
RECEIVED
RECEIVED
RECEIVED
RECEIVED
RECEIVED
RECEIVED
RECEIVED
RECEIVED
RECEIVED
RECEIVED
RECEIVED
RECEIVED
RECEIVED
RECEIVED
RECEIVED
RECEIVED
RECEIVED
RECEIVED
RECEIVED
RECEIVED
RECEIVED
RECEIVED
RECEIVED
RECEIVED
RECEIVED
RECEIVED
RECEIVED
RECEIVED
RECEIVED
RECEIVED
RECEIVED
RECEIVED
RECEIVED
RECEIVED
RECEIVED
RECEIVED
RECEIVED
RECEIVED
RECEIVED
RECEIVED
RECEIVED
RECEIVED
RECEIVED
RECEIVED
RECEIVED
RECEIVED
RECEIVED
RECEIVED
RECEIVED
RECEIVED
RE
Letter to Director, FBI
Re: FLYING DISCS
August 8, 1947
his camera and estimated it took him approximately twenty to thirty seconds, at which time the discs were almost directly over his apartment and it was necessary that he stoop and look up almost perpendicular in order to obtain the photograph, which accounts for the porch railing being shown in the newspaper clipping. BILLY pointed out that the day on which he took the picture, the weather was hazy and somewhat cloudy and there was a slight breeze blowing from the southwest in the general direction of the northeast, which is the same direction traveled by the black image which he photographed.
Inasmuch as the Army authorities in the Tidewater Area of Virginia are cognizant of the above information, no further investigation will be conducted by this office in this matter.
Enclosure.
TJC:lab
62-182

- 2 -
Clipping From Norfolk Ledger-Dispatch
Date 7-9-47

Flying Disc 'Bigger Than Automobile' Photographed By Youth Who Is Amazed Because No One Else Saw It

By GEORGE HEBERT
"The flying disc "was lots bigger than an automobile," and 15-year-old Bil Turrentine, of 410 West Fourteenth Street, doesn't understand why almost everybody in Norfolk didn't see it.
In fact, when he came to the Ledger-Dispatch with a photograph he had taken of the object, he wanted to know why the newspapers hadn't already taken a picture of it. "I thought your photographers were fast," he told a reporter.
few seconds later didn't look anything like saucers." Looked Like Football
The boy stuck to his football comparison, explaining that the object was sort of rounded, more oval than disc-like, and that though it wobbled in its northeastward flight it was traveling very rapidly, about 600 miles an hour.
He guessed that the altitude of the thing was about 5,000 feet, just below the clouds. In color it was "gray, almost black," and looked like a "burned crisp," or
The image shows two people, one appearing to be an adult and the other a young man, looking at documents on a table. The adult is wearing glasses and a patterned tie and is holding a pen, as if signing something. The young man is wearing a collared shirt and a striped tie.
(Editor's Note: Although the Ledger-Dispatch has had many reports of flying discs and saucers in recent days, no other person reported seeing the object which Turrentine photographed.)
However, Bill said he had done some fast moving himself shortly before noon Tuesday, when he stood on his front porch and saw the large gray object, "rocking and spinning like a football" and coming from the southwest.
He had just returned from Summer school classes at Maury, he said, and with all the talk about "flying saucers," had gone out with his camera to see if he could see anything.
"I don't see why they call them flying saucers," he said. "The big one I took a picture of and the two little ones that came behind it a
maybe a rock or stone. The edges glittered, he said, and seemed to be trailing dust. Neither it nor the two which followed made any sound.
Bill said he wasn't very surprised when he saw the object, but "almost killed myself" getting shots of it with his camera, set at 1/100th of a second.
He called his 18-year-old sister, Josephine, to come and look, but apparently she didn't believe him.
As the "flying football" passed over, Bill said he took three shots of it, but when he hurriedly developed the film, after legging it to Olney Road for a vial of developer, only one negative came out well enough for reproduction.
He showed a reporter a contact print he had made himself, and the picture reproduced here is an
**Subject:** Bill Turrentine (age 15)
**Location:** 410 West Fourteenth Street, Norfolk
**Time:** Between 11 a.m. and noon on Tuesday
**Observation:** Saw a "flying football" shaped object, described as rounded and oval. It glittered and was followed by two smaller objects.
**Details:**
*   **Object Shape:** Rounded and oval, resembling a football rather than a disc.
*   **Followed by:** Two smaller objects.
*   **Speed:** Estimated at 600 miles per hour.
*   **Altitude:** Estimated at 5,000 feet, just below the clouds.
*   **Photography:** Taken with an old camera, shutter set at 1/100th of a second, from the porch of his home. The image is an enlargement.
*   **Witnesses:** The reporter, George Herbert, was shown a contact print. No other people reported seeing the object.
NORFOLK BOY AND PHOTO OF DISC-Bill Turrentine, '15, (right) tells Ledger-Dispatch reporter George Herbert (left) of the "lucky" circumstances which enabled him to take the photograph at far right of a flying disc. However, the boy said the object pictured here looked and moved more like a football, being rounded and oval, rather than disc-like. Bill took this picture from the porch of his home at 410 West Fourteenth Street between 11 o'clock and noon Tuesday, using an old camera, with the shutter set at 1/100th of a second. He said the "flying football" shown here was followed by two smaller ones, all moving at about 600 miles an hour and he guessed they were about 5,000 feet high, just below the clouds. The photograph reproduced here is an enlargement made by Photo Craftsmen. In the foreground of young Turrentine's picture is the porch rail of his home.
enlargement made by Photo Crafts-
men.
Photo experts of this firm are convinced that the boy did a fine job with the old camera he was using. Having closely examined the negative, they said the only flaw was in the kind of film, which perhaps didn't bring out enough detail. They pointed out, however, that this wasn't really a flaw, in view of the fact that Bill's photograph, with the comparison afforded by the front porch rail and the trees, was certainly the best one taken since the mysterious discs were first reported.
65-83894-45
ENCLOSURE
The Flying Roll
3615 Alexia Place
San Diego 4, Calif.
6751
1
Papine
Jørgen
THE ROUND ROBIN
THE XFLYING ROLL
San Diego, California. July 8, 1947 -
(For your Information)
- A MEMORANDUM OF IMPORTANCE
THIS MEMORANDUM is respectfully addressed to certain scientists of distinction, to important aeronautical and military authorities, to a number of public officials, and to a few publications.
The writer has little expectation that anything of import will be accomplished by this gesture. The mere fact that the data herein were obtained by so-called supernormal means is probably sufficient to insure its disregard by nearly all the persons addressed; nevertheless it seems a public duty to make it available. (The present writer has several university degrees and was formerly a university department head).
A very serious situation may develop at any time with regard to the "flying saucers." If one of these should be attacked, the attacking plane will almost certainly be destroyed. In the public mind this might create near panic and international suspicion. The principal data concerning these craft is now at hand and must be offered, no matter how fantastic and unintelligible it may seem to minds not previously instructed in thinking of this type.
1. Part of the disks carry crews, others are under remote control.
2. Their mission is peaceful. The visitors contemplate settling on this planet.
3. These visitors are human-like but much larger in size.
4. They are NOT excarnate earth people, but come from their own world.
5. They do NOT come from any "planet" as we use the word, but from an etheric planet which interpenetrates with our own and is not perceptible to us.
6. The bodies of the visitors, and the craft also, automatically "materialize" on entering the vibratory rate of our dense matter. (Cp. "apports.")
7. The disks possess a type of radiant energy, or a ray, which will easily disintegrate any attacking ship. They reenter the etheric at will, and so simply disappear from our vision, without trace.
8. The region from which they come is NOT the "astral plane", but corresponds to the Lokas or Talas. Students of esoteric matters will understand these terms.
9. They probably cannot be reached by radio, but probably can be by radar, if a signal system can be devised for that apparatus.
No
We give information and warning, and can do no more. Let the newcomers be treated with every kindness. Unless the disks are withdrawn, a situation threatens with which our culture and science are incapable of dealing. A heavy responsibility rests upon the few in authority who are able to understand this matter.
N.Meade Layne
3615 Alexia Place
San Diego, California.
Addendum: The Lokas are oval shape, fluted lengthwise of the oval with a heat-resisting metal or alloy not yet known to us; the front edge contains the controls; the middle portion is a

FBI
LABORATORY DIVISION
31 9 37 AM 9/7
MR. JONES
RECEIVED-HARBO
Jul.29 1 59 PM '47
RECEIVED
RECEIVED
FBI
S DEPT. OF JUSTICE
JUL 31 9 09 AM
TECHNICAL LABORATORY
FBI
U.S. DEPT. OF JUSTICE
COM-4a

F.B.I. TELETYPE

Mr. Tolson: <empty>
Mr. E. A. Tamm: <empty>
Mr. Clegg: <empty>
Mr. Coffey: <signature>
Mr. Glavin: <signature>
Mr. Ladd: <signature>
Mr. Nichols: <empty>
Mr. Rosen: <empty>
Mr. Tracy: <empty>
Mr. Carson: <empty>
Mr. Egan: <empty>
Mr. Hendon: <empty>
Mr. Pennington: <empty>
Mr. Quinn Tamm: <empty>
Mr. Nease: <empty>
Miss Gandy: <empty>
KT
DECODED COPY
WASH FROM SFRAN S2 8-9-47
2-50 PM KC
DIRECTOR FBI AND SACS, SEATTLE AND PORTLAND URGENT
FLYING DISKS, SECURITY MATTER-X. LT. COL. DONALD C. SPRINGER OF G2, SAN FRANCISCO, ADVISED TODAY HE HAS NO FURTHER INFORMATION AND THAT OUR SEATTLE OFFICE IS IN POSSESSION OF ALL INFORMATION KNOWN BY HIM AND IS HANDLING THE MATTER AT TACOMA, WASHINGTON.
G. I. R. -9
RECORDED
62-0389441
KIMBALL
FEB
AUG 12 2047
MG
RECEIVED
8-9-47
8:15 EXAM 43 EDST
SACS SEATTLE AND PORTLAND ADVISED
RECEIVED TELETYPE UNIT
Aug 9 11 26 PM '47
per no JUSTICE
Fabric.com
9 AUG 2017
OUT
INTERNAL SECURITY
F.B.I.
RECEIVED

STANDARD FORM NO. 64

Office Memorandum

TO: D. M. Ladd <signature>
DATE: August 1, 1947
<signature>

FROM: J. P. Coyne

SUBJECT: MRS. ARTHUR DOUGLASS ANDERSON
INFORMANT
<signature>
There is attached hereto a letter received from the captioned individual postmarked July 12, 1947, concerning "flying saucers."
There is also attached a letter of acknowledgement to Mrs. Anderson together with a letter to the War Department for approval.
It is recommended that the letter to the War Department be forwarded to the Liaison Section for transmittal to that agency.
Done
g
Attachments handled separately
WVC:mjp
50 SEP 30 1947
252
RECORDED

INDEXED

G. I. R. - 9

78

62-83894-48

FBI

AUG 12 1947

pj
8 1947
RECEIVED
AUG 8 19
Aug 8 11 24 AM
INTERNAL SECURITY
F. B. I:
DEPT. OF JUST.
FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION
U. S. DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE
COMMUNICATIONS SECTION
Mr. Tolson
Mr. Z. A. Tamm
Mr. Clegg.
Mr. Glavine: 
Mr. Ladd: 
Mr. Nichols: 
Mr. Rosen:
AUG 11 1947
Mr. Tracy: 
Mr. Egan: 
Mr. Gurnea: 
Mr. Harbo: 
Mr. Mohr: 
Mr. Pennington: 
Mr. Quinn Tamm: 
Mr. Nease: 
Miss Gandy:
TELETYPE
FBI PORTLAND
8-11-47
1-17 PM PST
KAM
DIRECTOR
URGENT
FLYING DISCS. SECURITY MATTER DASH X. ONE RED HATFIELD, FOREMR NAVY
PILOT AND PRESENTLY AIRPORT MANAGER, MYRTLE CREEK, OREGON, REPORTS
SEEING A MYSTERIOUS OBJECT ON TWO OCASIONS THE EVENING OF AUGUST SIXTH
WHILE FLYING AT ABOUT FIVE THOUSAND FEET ABOVE MYRTLE CREEK. HATFIELD TO BE INTERVIEWED.
BOBBITT
END
5-18 PM OK FBI WASH DC GAR
RECORDED
62-83894-49
INDEXED
36 AUG 18 1947
V 50 OCT 1 1947 283
EX-60
G.I.R.9.
5-R7
RECEIVED
AUG 12 9:55 AM
ΒΕΛΤΙΩΣΗ ΙΙ
ΑΛΙΓΕ ΕΡΑΤΟΣ
INTERNAL SECURITY
F. B. I.
RECEIVED TELETYPE UNIT
AUG 11 5 21 PM '47
F.B.I. DEPT. OF JUSTICE
5:38 PM 4/7
RECEIVED-LA001
LITOI THE LIMEDHATA VTUNOKI NAKYSEY HAKIPE ODEK

STANDARD FORM NO. 64
Office Memorandum
20

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT
TO: DIRECTOR, FBI
DATE:: August 12, 1947
FROM: <signature> SAC, MILWAUKEE
SUBJECT:: FLYING DISCS
SABOTAGE
Reference is made to Bureau Bulletin No. 42, Series 1947, dated July 30, 1947, Section (B), which advises that all reports concerning flying discs should be investigated by field offices.
Prior to the receipt of these instructions, two instances were called to the attention of this office concerning flying discs. One report was received July 7, 1947, the details of which are set forth in Milwaukee letter to the Bureau dated July 8, 1947, entitled, "Flying Discs or Saucers, Miscellaneous, Telephone Call from Mr. Fletcher at the Bureau at 8:30 a.m., 7-7-47." No investigation was conducted concerning this report.
The second report was received by this office at 1:20 p.m. July 11, 1947, from Lieutenant Colonel HARRY W. SCHAEFER, who is in charge of the Civil Air Patrol of Wisconsin, an auxiliary of the Army Air Forces. On that occasion Colonel SCHAEFER, calling from Black River Falls, Wisconsin, telephonically advised this office that an object in the shape of a disc, nineteen inches in diameter had been found July 10, 1947, by one SIG HANSON, city electrician on the Jackson County fairgrounds, near Black River Falls, Wisconsin, about 3:30 p.m. The disc might be made of a substance such as cardboard covered by a silver airplane dope material. The contraption has a small wooden tail like a rudder in the back and inside of the disc is what appears to be an RCA photo-electric cell or tube. Also inside the disc is a little electric motor with a shaft running to the center of the disc. At one end of the shaft is a very small propeller. In Colonel SCHAEFER's opinion that contraption might possibly have been made by some juvenile. Colonel SCHAEFER stated that he desired to return the contraption to Milwaukee and eventually turn it over to the Army Air Forces, but that the finder, SIG HANSON, apparently wanted to get some publicity on his find and wanted it returned to him.
This information was telephonically called to the attention of Assistant Director D. M. LADD of the Bureau on July 11, 1947.
Subsequently, SAC H. K. JOHNSON telephoned Colonel FRED SIEBERT in charge of Counter Intelligence, Fifth Army, Chicago AC of S G-2 Headquarters Fifth Army, East Hyde Park Avenue, Chicago, Illinois, who stated he would contact Colonel SCHAEFER of Black River Falls, Wisconsin.
No further investigation was conducted in this matter.
h this matter.
62-83894-50
2021
G 14 1947
630CT 3 1947
C.I.R.-9
INDEED
Ex.30
14
COPIES DESTROYED
270 NOV 18 1964
Director
8-12-47
The above constitutes the only two instances in which this office was contacted concerning flying discs. Unless contrary instructions are received from the Bureau, this office does not contemplate taking any further action in connection with the above two cases, but will fully investigate all future reports concerning flying discs.
JGF/ddc
98-0

-2-
August 5, 1947
Mr. Fred R. Reibold
2315 Himebaugh Avenue
Omaha, Nebraska
Dear Mr. Reibold:
Flying discs
wledge receipt of your letter
I wish to acknowledge receipt of your letter post-marked July 10, 1947, together with its enclosure.
Inasmuch as the information which you furnished is of interest to the War Department I have taken the liberty of furnishing it to that agency for their consideration.
Sincerely yours,
COMMUNICATIONS SECTION
MAILED 5
AUG 1947 P.M.

:mjp:rb
33894
FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION
U.S. DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

583
19
<signature>
John Edgar Hoover
Director
D by
spec
83894
Tamm
سلہ
RECORDED
&
INDEXED
EX-8
F B I
AUG 15
51
AUG 6 12:28 PM '97

F131
copy
CONFIDENTIAL
DECLASSIFIED
Authority:
NND 90986
UNIDENTIFIABLE OBJECTS,
WILLIAMS FIELD, CHANDLER,
ARIZONA.
14 July 1947

MEMORANDUM FOR THE OFFICER IN CHARGE:
On 8 July 1947, this Agent obtained pictures of unidentifiable objects, (Exhibits 1 and 2) from the managing editor of the Arizona Republic newspaper. The pictures were taken by Mr. William Rhoads, 4333 N. 11th St., Phoenix, Arizona, at sunset, on 7 July 1947. The Subject objects flew at unbelievable speeds, making three circles in the vicinity of Mr. Rhoads' home. The pictures were taken with a box camera, size 620. The photograph (Exhibit 1) was taken as the object passed in front of Mr. Rhoads, and Exhibit 2 as the object turned towards Mr. Rhoads. The height of the object was estimated at 1000 feet.
AGENT'S NOTES: See Exhibits 1 and 2, photographs of unidentifiable objects, enlarged approximately 20 times. No further reports have been received by this office of objects seen by military personnel.
Lynn. C. Aldrich, Special Agent, EIC - AAF, FDTRC
CONFIDENTIAL
FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION
U. S. DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE
AUG 8 1947
copy
SAN FRANCISCO
ROUTED TO
Juel #1

CONFIDENTIAL
HEADQUARTERS FOURTH AIR FORCE
Office of the Assistant Chief of Staff, A-2
Intelligence
Hamilton Field, California
4AFDA
333.5 ID
4 August 1947
SUBJECT: Investigation of "Flying Discs"
TO: Special Agent in Charge, FBI, U. S. Dept of Justice, Suite 426, 111 Sutter Street, San Francisco 4, California.
Enclosed herewith is information copy of MOIC and newspaper clipping re subject.
2 Incls:
1. MOIC Sorensen 7 Jul 47.
2. Newspaper clipping dtd
5 Jul 47.
WILLIAM R. GRAHAM
Major, Air Corps
Deputy AC of S, A-2
FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION
U. S. DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE
AUG 7 1947
SAN FRANCISCO: <empty>
ROUTED TO: <empty>
FILE: <empty>

CONFIDENTIAL
ENCLOSURE 62-83894-52
CONFIDENTIAL

Best Possible Image
HEADQUARTERS FOURTH AIR FORCE
Office of the Assistant Chief of Staff, A-2
Intelligence
Hamilton Field, California
4AFDA
333.5 ID
4 August 1947
SUBJECT: Investigation of "Flying Discs"
TO: Special Agent in Charge, FBI, U. S. Dept. of Justice, Suite 426, 111 Sutter Street, San Francisco 4, California.
Attached MOIC is forwarded for your information.
WILLIAM R. GRAHAM
Major, Air Corps
Deputy AC of S. A-2
1 Incl:
MOIC Aldrich, 14 Jul 47.
FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION
U. S. DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE
AUG 8 1947
SAN FRANC
solved to
CONFIDENTIAL

CONFIDENTIAL
HEADQUARTERS FOURTH AIR FORCE
Office of the Assistant Chief of Staff, A-2
Intelligence
Hamilton Field, California
4AFDA
555.5 ID
4 August 1947
SUBJECT: Investigation of "Flying Discs"
TO: Special Agent in Charge, U. S. Department of Justice, Suite 426, 111 Sutter Street, San Francisco, California.
Forwarded herewith is information copy of statement and newspaper clipping re subject.
2 Incls:
1. Statement of RANKIN, dtd 30 Jul 47.
2. Newspaper clipping, dtd 3 Jul 47.
WILLIAM R. GRAHAM
Major, Air Corps
Deputy AC of S, A-2
FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION
U.S. DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE
AUG 7 1947
SAN FRANCISCO
ROUNDED TO

CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL
From the Oregon Journal - continued.
MORE SEEN LATER.
Several late flights of objects over Portland were reported Friday afternoon. E. A. Evans, 3433 SW Macadam avenue, said he saw three fly east across the Willamette river near the Ross Island bridge about 2 p.m. The objects did not appear high, he said, and were traveling so fast that, appearing in the west, they were out of sight in the east in two to four seconds. He said they resembled metallic disks glinting in the sunlight. Later, he said, he and neighbors saw a single disk-like object flying north far away and very high.
At 4:30 p.m., Mrs. Lawrence J. Hayward, 6124 NE 21st Avenue, reported sighting a disk "like a new dime flipping around" in the air over the Sandy district. She said it seemed to be moving slowly.
PAPER RECOVERED.
Thomas N. Dwyer, 1232 NE 59th Avenue, said he sighted two white or silver objects flying southeast high over Portland a few minutes before 5 p.m. He reported another, headed northeast, over his home at 5:30 p.m.
C. J. Bagne, Tigard, reported that four disks flew past Mount Jefferson at about 11 a.m. while he was driving near Redmond.
Sherman Cook, 2000 NE 65th avenue, recovered from Rose City golf course a piece of paper he said had fallen from a great height in the sky. Time of its fall coincided with some of the reports of flying disks. The paper, of low quality, measured 23½ x 36 inches.
SILVERED DISKS, DROPPED BY PLANE.
EUGENE, July 5 -(AP)- A Eugene railroad cashier said Friday he saw silvered disks being dropped out of a light airplane flying over this city.
E. F. Smith, Rt 2, Eugene, an assistant cashier for the Southern Pacific Railroad, said he was driving on a Eugene street when --

CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIA
FROM THE OREGON JOURNAL - 5 July 1947, Portland, Ore.

AIRLINES CREW CONFIRMS REPORTS OF FLYING DISKS: FIVE SPOTTED.
Circumstantial reports of flying disks in the sky Friday came from the crew of a United Airlines plane over Boise, Idaho, and a coast guardsman near Seattle, as well as from Portland area police and citizens.
E. J. Smith, captain of the airliner, told United Press that he sighted five "somethings" which were "thin and smooth on the bottom and rough appearing on top." The objects appeared against the sunset shortly after the plane took off at 3:04 p.m., he said.
"We saw them clearly," he reported. "We followed them in a north-westerly direction for about 45 miles. Finally the objects disappeared. We were unable to tell whether they outsped us or disintegrated.

NOT AIRCRAFT.
"We can't say whether they were saucer-like, oval or anything else," the captain said, "but whatever they were, they were not another aircraft, nor were they smoke or clouds."
In Seattle, Coast Guardsman Frank Ryman, 27, reported to United Press that he snapped a picture from the front porch of his home which showed a "white saucer" flying over the north end of Lake Washington.
Aome News Pictures, New York City, said a 7x9 inch print of the photograph showed two tiny dots, one of which was a flaw in the print.
Don Metcalfe, 19, Oaks Amusement park employe, reported that he saw several objects "like spinning disks" in the sky Friday. He said several picnickers, including a woman pilot noticed them.
In Vancouver, Wash., Sheriff's Deputies John Sullivan, Clarence McKay and Fred Krives heard the Portland police radio broadcast and ran out of the sheriff's office to look at the sky. Over Portland, three to five miles away, Sullivan said, they saw 20 to 30 objects "like a flight of geese." They heard a low humming sound.

OTHERS DOUBTFUL.
Col. G. R. Dodson, commander of the Oregon national guard, made an inspection of this area from the air after the disks were reported here. He said he saw nothing "suspicious."
Only known military airplanes in the air at the time of the reports were 23 B-29 bombers near Astoria.
Despite all the reports, at least two persons remained unconvinced of the existence of the disks. Al P. Sanford, Holgate moorage, gave his opinion that the objects were cottonwood blossoms.
Burl Nollsch, 64, of 6604 N. Burrage avenue, telephoned the Journal to berate the newspapers for "perpetuating a hoax." He said he saw objects in the sky about a minute after an airplane passed over his house. To him the objects looked like bits of aluminum foil, perhaps cigarette wrappers.

CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL,
PORTLAND, OREGON
30, July 1947
C-H-A-T-I-N-I-C-A-T-I-N
On 30 July 1947 Mr Richard Rankin, 834 N. E. Simpson Street, Portland, Oregon was interviewed by this agent and stated in substance as follows:
My name is Richard Rankin. I am 47 years old and have flown since I was nineteen years old. I first soloed in an air craft in 1919. I have flown over all the western parts of the United States many times and have mapped all of the western part of the United States during the years before the late war for the US Forest Service. I am familiar with almost every part of the western United States. During a great part of my life I have done stunt flying for air shows and various other types of aeronautical exhibitions. My brother was "Tex" Rankin who was quite well known in both civilian and Military flying circles for many years before his death and during the late war ran thousands of Flying Cadets through primary training schools owned and operated by him. To date I have accomplished 7000 hours in the air as pilot of both civilian and Military aircraft. I am well acquainted with most articles that one would see in the air and I feel that I am well qualified to say when I see articles flying through the air, although I would not attempt to say that I am infallible and state that I could definitely identify every object that might be flying through the air. The following is an account of what I saw on 11 June 1947 from the yard of my home at 1800 South "M" St, Bakersfield, California.
At approximately 1200 noon on the 11th of June I was lying in the front yard of my home. There was a lad mowing the lawn at the time. I looked up into the sky and saw ten articles flying from the South to the North at what I would judge to be 8500 ft. The objects were flying at approximately what I would judge to be 350 miles per hour. As I have stated before, I have done quite a lot of map work for the US Forest Service. I distinctly remember that at the time I saw the articles I mentioned it to the lad who was mowing the lawn at the time. I told the lad that the objects were in all probability some sort of Army or Navy test planes from the nearby test centers on the deserts of Southern California. Having quite a knowledge of aircraft in general I attempted to explain to the lad mowing the lawn that the objects were probably on some sort of training mission for either the Army or Navy. At that time I did not give the slightest thought to anything but that the objects were some sort of test ship for the Government services. The objects resembled the pictures that I have seen of the XF5U-1, the so called "Flying Flapjack" that the Navy is testing. After the objects disappeared I proceeded into the house and had my noon meal. At approximately 1:15 I went back into the yard to sit and lie in the shade. At this time the objects reappeared going from North to South, although this time there were only seven of the articles. When I first saw the original ten objects they were flying in a "V" formation with one object seemingly staggering in the rear of the formation. When the objects appeared the second time they were still in the "V" formation although there was only seven of the objects at this time. I remember at this time that I told the lad, who was still working on the lawn, that probably three of the objects had proceeded back to their base on a different course. I actually thought that this was the case, that the other three objects had probably gone back to their base on the other side of the mountains from Bakersfield. A week or so later when I read of Mr. Kenneth Arnold claiming that he had seen articles flying through the air over the Cascade Mountains in
AUG 7 1947
9.6.1

CONFIDENTIAL
SAN FRANCISCO

CONFIDENTIAL
COPY
A
FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION
U.S. DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE
AUG 7 1947
SAN FRANCISCO, CALIFORNIA
OUTED TO: 
FILE:
FROM "THE OREGONIAN" - Thursday, July 3, 1947
PILOT RECALLS SEEING DISCS.
Dick Rankin Tells Of Odd Aircraft:
More reports of "flying flapjacks" turned up Wednesday, one from no less than Dick Rankin, brother of the late Tex Rankin, and himself an experienced pilot of more than 7000 hours' flying time.
Rankin, who is recovering from an old back injury received in an automobile accident, came to Portland over the weekend to spend the summer. He saw the "silver saucers" over Bakersfield, Cal., June 23, while lying on the lawn sun bathing, he told The Oregonian.
"I hesitated to say much about them," Rankin said, "until I noticed all the hullabaloo in the papers. I puzzled over their strange shape for a while and finally concluded that they were the navy's new XP5U-1 flying flapjacks, which are thin and round, with twin propellers and stubby tail."
ONLY ONE XFSU-1 BUILT.
The navy and the manufacturer have announced officially that only one such machine was built and that it never left Connecticut.
"These planes were flying high, maybe 9000 feet, and fairly fast, about 300 or 400 miles an hour. I first counted ten of them in formation, going north. About 2:15 P.M. they returned on the reverse course, headed south, but there were only seven in the formation.
"They were not weaving or bobbing in formation; I couldn't make out the number or location of their propellers and couldn't distinguish any wings or tail. They appeared almost round. They looked like pictures of the navy's flying flapjack," Rankin said.
Rankin, who plans to spend the summer here at 854 N. E. Simpson St., is now able to resume a little flying for fun, but not commercially, he said. He now operates a string of auto courts, spending his winters at Palm Springs.
TWO DESCRIPTIONS CHECK.
Rankin's description of the mysterious aerial objects agrees with that of Kenneth Arnold, Boise, Idaho, business man, who first reported them over the State of Washington, except that Arnold clocked them at an estimated 1200 miles an hour.
Other reports came Wednesday from Astoria. Jack Hayes, patient in St. Mary's hospital there, said he saw two of the discs Monday flying south-west at a rapid speed and that they vanished behind the hills.
Mrs. Earl Seado, Fort Stevens, said she saw a disc traveling north over Fort Stevens Tuesday noon, and that other observers saw the same object. The army at Fort Stevens and the coast guard at nearby Point Adams did not see the discs.
The report of a Centralia, Wash., man Wednesday coincided in matter of time with the original report made by Arnold. Sidney B. Gallagher of Centralia said he saw nine aluminum-hued objects flying north at 3 P.M. June 24. He was working 11 miles southwest of Mineral, Wash., at the time.
Ind#2.

CONFIDENTIAL
Washington I realized that the articles that I saw were probably the same thing. I was still reluctant to mention this to anyone thinking that they would probably say that I was crazy. After some time I mentioned the indent to the editor of the "Oregonian", a Portland, Oregon newspaper. At this time I was in Portland for the remainder of the summer. The results of the conversation with the editor of the paper is put forth in the accompanying newspaper article.
I fully realize that this is a broad statement in view of the fact that there has been so much publicity heretofore put forth in various newspapers of the country. I am of sound mind in every respect and I am firmly convinced that the articles I saw are actually some sort of flying machines although I cannot say from where they came or to where they were going. I say what I have said with no idea of publicity or personal gain.
SIGNED: <empty>
Richmond Rankin
Portland, Oregon
30 July 1947

CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL
FBI
FROM THE OREGON JOURNAL - 5 July 1947, Portland, Ore.

"PROWL CARS SPOT DISKS IN SKY HERE"
Whatever they are, there are some disk-like objects flying around in the sky.
Or else eight Portland area policemen and deputy sheriffs who sighted the objects Friday, numerous private citizens, the crew of a United Air Lines plane over Boise, Idaho, and a coastguardsman who claims to have photographed one near Seattle, are all wrong.
In Portland the alert was sounded over police radio at 1:06 p.m. Friday, after the East Side station received a score of calls that the disks were overhead. Within seconds, two prowl cars reported spotting the mystery craft.

FLASHES SEEN, NOISE LACKING.
First to report in were Patrolmen Walter Lissy and Robert Ellis in Car No. 82, who stopped near Oaks Park. Both World War II veterans and civilian pilots, they sighted three of the objects within 30 seconds traveling at great height and speed over the park. They reported they heard no engine noises but saw flashes. The objects seemed erratic and changed direction of flight. The patrolmen agreed that without knowledge of the size of the objects it would be impossible to judge their speed or altitude.
Patrolman Earl Patterson in car No. 13 stopped at SE 82d avenue and Foster road to look eastward from where the disks were reported. Telephone calls located them coming out of the sun. He saw nothing, but a few seconds later observed one coming out of the west and heading southwest. The craft seemed to be aluminum or eggshell white and didn't flash or reflect light, he said.

OBJECTS UNIDENTIFIED.
A former air corps veteran, he said the object was unlike any plane he'd ever seen. He thought it appeared radio-controlled because the disk could change direction at a 90-degree angle without difficulty.
Members of the harbor patrol at the foot of NW Irving street stepped out when they heard the all-car alert. Capt. K. A. Prehn, Harbor Pilot, A. T. Austed and Patrolman K. C. Hoff all saw the objects and said they appeared to be going south high over the Globe mills at terrific speed. Capt. Prehn said the flashes kept them from ascertaining whether there were three or six.
"The disks would oscillate and sometimes we would see a full disk, then a half-moon shape, then nothing at all," he reported. The objects looked more like a shiny chromium hub cap off a car which wobbled, disappeared and reappeared.'
There was a plane in the sky at the time, but all were emphatic that the disks were not planes.
FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION
U. S. DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE
AUG 7 1947
9/20/11 2
CONFIDENTIAL
SAN FRANCISCO
ROUTED TO

CONFIDENTIAL

UNEXPLAINED FLYING DISCS
7 July 1947

5. This agent interviewed W. A. Lissy and D. W. Ellis, both Patrolman, Portland City Police Department and both possess private pilots licenses. Both officers advised that upon hearing the radio alert, they saw three flat round discs, having a white color to them. These discs were, according to these officers, flying at a terrific speed in a Southerly direction away from Portland, They described them as flying in a straight line formation, the last disc fluttering very rapidly in a side way arc. They further advised the discs were equally spaced and kept in formation. Both officers estimated the discs altitude at 40,000 feet. They saw no evidence of any motivating powers and vapor trails or smoke trails. Both officers stated these discs were traveling so fast, they were out of sight before any detailed observation could be made, or any sound could be heard.
AGENT'S NOTE: All informants mentioned herein are known to this agent as very dependable and trustworthy officers, not being afflicted with hallucinations. The weather in the Portland area at this time was clear with little or no cloud formations being visible from the ground. Ground temperature at this time was 82 degrees Fahrenheit.
Keith A. Sorensen, S/A CIC, Sixth Army

CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL

UNEXPLAINED FLYING DISCS
7 July 1947

MEMORANDUM FOR THE OFFICER IN CHARGE:
1. At 1305, 4 July 1947, a radio alert was issued via the Portland City Police Radio, advising all cars and listeners that some fast flying objects were in the air over Portland and vicinity. Upon contacting the radio dispatcher, this agent was advised that Kenneth A. McDowell, Patrolman, Portland City Police Department, residing at 916 S. E. Bush Street, Portland, Oregon, on duty at Precinct #1, Portland City Police, Southeast Morrison at 10th Avenue, had called in advising the dispatcher of the flying objects.
2. This agent interviewed Officer McDowell who stated at approximately 1505, 4 July 1947, he was on duty at Precinct #1, and was in the parking lot back of the Police Station, feeding the pigeons. At this time the pigeons became very excited over something and fluttered in the air all at once. Officer McDowell stated in looking around to see what had disturbed them, he saw five large discs in the air to the East of Portland two discs flying South and three flying in an Easterly direction. Officer McDowell stated he could determine no color to the discs, but advised they were dipping in an up and down oscillating motion and were traveling at a great speed. He was unable to give an estimate of the speed or altitude of these discs as they were out of sight before any detailed observation could be made. Officer McDowell advised he notified the Police Radio who immediately broadcast an alert. Officer McDowell advised he saw no indication of any motivating force or heard any sound coming from these discs and could give no description other than round.
3. This agent interviewed Sergeant Claude Cross, Oregon State Police Officer on duty at District Number 1 Station, Milwaukie, Oregon. Cross stated upon hearing the radio alert he went outside and upon looking in an Easterly direction he saw three discs following each other at an undetermined altitude and at a terrific speed, traveling in a Northwesterly direction. Cross advised he noticed a whitish brown glint to these objects as the sun reflected from them. Cross was unable to give any other description nor could he judge the objects speed or altitude. No sound was made by the objects.
4. This agent interviewed Earl E. Patterson, Patrolman, Portland City Police Department, and residing at 124 Southeast 13th Avenue, Portland, Oregon, Patterson advises he was a former Air Corps pilot during the war. He stated that the time the radio alert sounded, he was at Southeast 82nd and Foster Road, Portland, and upon getting out of his car he saw one disc flying in a Southwesterly direction over Portland. Patterson advised this disc was alumi-num in color, left no vapor trail or smoke trail and was traveling at a terrific speed, faster than he has ever seen any flying object before. Patterson further advised, although not knowing the exact size of the object it is difficult to determine the altitude, he estimates its altitude at 30,000 feet.
Patterson further advised the flying disc was definitely some type of air-craft but he could not give any further description as its speed made observation difficult. He heard no sound emitted by the flying objects.
Keith A. Sorensen, S/A CIC, Sixth Army
SAN FRANCISCO
ROUTED TO

CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL:
This image is not a chart. It is a black and white photograph showing a dark, elongated object against a lighter background. The object appears to be slightly blurred. There are also some black lines at the edges of the image, suggesting it might be a scan or a photograph of a document.
EXHIBIT 3
This image is not a chart. It is a black and white photograph of a dark, oval-shaped object with a lighter, elongated rectangular shape within it, against a mottled background. The object appears to have a pointed tip. The image is framed by black tape in the corners and has some artifacting. The text "EXHIBIT II" is present.
EXHIBIT II

CONFIDENTIAL
EX:4131#147
