  94
  QS Pas
NATIONAL  AERONAUTICS  AND  SPACE  ADMINISTRATION

  APOLLO 11
  TECHNICAL
  CREW DEBRIEFING

  (U)
  ~  ,

  «

  Sey
  “

  JULY 31, 1969

 @  ahe
  PREPARED BY:
  yo
  MISSION OPERATIONS BRANCH |
  FLIGHT CREW SUPPORT DIVISION
  VOR

  GROUP 4
  Downgraded at  3-year
  intervals;  declassified
  after 12 years

  This material
  : United States
  within the me;
  3 and 794, the
  transmission |  NOTICE: This document may be exempt
  from  person  is
  prohibited by
  public disclosure under the Freedom
  of tnfor-
  mation Act (5 U.S.C. 552). Request
  for
  s its re-
  7g

  "es  lease to persons outside the U.S. Gover
  r  *  v  nment
  4
 «

  €.
  ms  r4  should be handled under the provisions of
  NASA Policy Directive 1382.2.
  a  is

  CENTER
  cr
  ot

  SIGNATOR  LOC
  6-33

COLLINS  I think particularly when you get into the later flights

  of extended EVA's and lunar activity, somehow the crew

  must place themselves in a frame of mind of looking on
  the separation of the LM as the beginning of the flight

  plan and to relax, get plenty of sleep,  and conserve

  their energies in all the events leading up to that

  point. To arrive in lunar orbit bipda can create prob-
  lems and it's possible to do that if you don't approach

  it in the right  frame of mind.

ARMSTRONG  I think Mike's hit the nail on the head.  We did precisely

  that.  We got a lot  of rest and got  into lunar orbit eager

  to go to work and that's a particularly fortunate position

  to be in.

COLLINS  This is something we've talked about before the flight

  and I don't know how you can get yourself in that frame

  of mind but I think it is a frame of mind.  You have to

  get yourself convinced that there will be a nice relaxing

  couple of days going to the moon.

ALDRIN  The first unusual thing that we saw I guess was 1 day out

  or something pretty close to the moon.  It had a sizeable

  dimension to it,  so we put the monocular on it.

  oe
6-34  —TEORIBEN HAE

COLLINS  How'd we see this thing?  Did we just look out the window

  and there it was?

ALDRIN  Yes, and we weren't sure but what it might be the S-IVB.

  We called the ground and were told the S-IVB was 6000 miles

  away.  We had a problem with the high gain about this

  time, didn't we?

COLLINS  There was something.  We felt a bump or maybe I just

  imagined it.

ARMSTRONG  He was wondering whether the MESA had come off.

COLLINS  I don't guess we felt anything.

ALDRIN  Of course, we were seeing all sorts of little objects

  going by at the various dumps and then we happened to see

  this one brighter object going by.  We couldn't think of

  anything else it could be other than the S-IVB.  We looked

  at it through the monocular and it seemed to have a bit

  of an L shape to it.

 ARMSTRONG  Like an open suitcase.

 ALDRIN  We were in PTC at the time so each one of us had a chance

  to take a look at this and it certainly seemed to be with-

  in our vicinity and of a very sizeable dimension.
  6-35

ARMSTRONG  We should say that  it was  right at the limit  of the reso-

  lution of the eye.  It was  very difficult to tell just

  what  shape  it was.  And there was  no way to tell the  size

  without knowing the range or the range without knowing

  the  size.

ALDRIN  So then I  got  down in the LEB and started looking for it

  in the  optics.  We were grossly mislead because with the

  sextant  off focus what we  saw appeared to be  a cylinder.

ARMSTRONG  Or really two rings.

ALDRIN  Yes.

ARMSTRONG  Two rings.  Two connected rings.

COLLINS  No,  it  looked like  a hollow cylinder to me.  It  didn't

  look like two connected rings.  You could see this  thing

  tumbling and, when it  came  around end-on,  you could look

  right  down in its  guts.  It was  a hollow cylinder.  But

  then you could change the  focus  on the sextant  and it

  would be replaced by this  open-book shape.  It was  really

  weird.

ALDRIN  I  guess there's not too much more to say about  it other

  than it wasn't  a cylinder.
6-36

COLLINS  It was  during the period when we thought  it was  a cylinder

  that we inquired about the S-IVB and we'd almost  convinced

  ourselves that's what it had to be.  But we don't have

  any more conclusions  than that really.  The fact that we

  didn't see it much past this  one time period
  — we really

  don't have a conclusion as to what it might have been,

  how big  it was,  or how far away it was.  It was  something

  that wasn't part of the urine dump, we're pretty sure of

  that.

  Skipping ahead a bit, when we  jettisoned the LM, you know

  we  fired an explosive  charge  and got rid of the  docking

  rings and the LM went boom.  Pieces came off the LM.  It

  could have been some Mylar or  something that had somehow

  come  loose  from the IM.

ALDRIN  We thought  it  could have been a panel, but it  didn't

  appear to have that  shape  at  all.

COLLINS  That's right,  and for some reason, we thought it might

  have been a part  of the high gain antenna.  It might have

  been about the time we had high gain antenna problems.

  In the back of my mind,  I have  some reason to  suspect that

  its  origin was  from the spacecraft.

  ST  Ar
  b
  CONEDENTAt—  ~
ALDRIN  The other observation that I made accumulated gradually.

  I don't know whether I saw it the first night, but I'm

  sure I saw it the second night.  I was trying to go to

  sleep with all the lights out.  I observed what I thought

  were little flashes inside the cabin, spaced a couple of

  minutes apart and I didn't think too much about it other:

  than just note in my mind that they continued to be there.
  I couldn't explain why my eye would see these flashes.

  we transearth coast, we had more time and I devoted
  more opportunity to investigating what this could have

  been.  It was at that point that I was able to observe

  on two different occasions that, instead of observing

  just one flash, I could see double flashes, at points

  separated by maybe a foot.  At other times, I could see

  a line with no direction of motion and the only thing

  that comes to my mind is that this is some sort of pene-

  tration.  At least that's my guess, without much to sup-

  port it; some penetration of some object into the

  spacecraft that causes an emission as it enters the cabin

  itself.  Sometimes it was one flash on entering.  Possibly

  departing from an entirely different part of the cabin,

  outside the field
  of view.  The double flashes appeared
  on something such as
  to have an entry and then impact

  the struts.  For a while, I thought it might have been
6-38

ALDRIN  some  static  electricity because  I was  also  able,  in moving
(CONT'D)
  my hand up  and  down the  sleep  restraint,  to  generate

  very  small  sparks  of static  electricity.  But  there was

  a definite difference between the two as  I  observed it

  more  and more.  I  tried to  correlate  this  with  the  direc-

  tion of the  sun.  When you put the window shades  up there

  is  still a small amount  of leakage.  You can generally

  tell within 20  or  30  degrees  the  direction of the  sun.

  It  seemed as though they were coming from that  general

  direction; however, I really couldn't  say if there was

  near  enough  evidence  to  support  that  these  things  were

  observable  on the  side  of the  spacecraft where the  sun

  was.  A little bit  of evidence  seemed to  Support  this.

  I  asked the others  if they had seen any of these  and,

  until about the  last  day, they hadn't.

ARMSTRONG  Buzz,  I'd seen some  light, but I  just  always  attributed

  this to sunlight,  because the window covers  leak a little

  bit  of light no matter how tightly secured.
  The  only

  time I observed it was  the last night when we really

  looked for it.  I  spent probably an hour carefully watch-

  ing the inside  of the spacecraft and I probably made

  20  significant  observations  in this period.
  ~ CONEIDENTIAT-
ALDRIN  Sometimes  a minute  or two would go by and then you'd see

  the two within the  space  of 10  seconds.  On an average,

  I'd say just as  a guess  it was maybe something like one

  a minute.  Certainly more than enough to  convince you

  that  it wasn't  an optical illusion.  It did give you a

  rather funny  feeling to  contemplate that  something was

  zapping through the  cabin.  There wasn't  anything you

  eould do:  about  it.

ARMSTRONG  It  could be  something like Buzz  suggested.  Mainly a

  neutron or  some kind of an atomic particle that would

  be  in the visible spectrum.
  ——SCONFIDENTIAL  94
  NATIONAL AERONAUTICS AND SPACE ADMINISTRATION

  APOLLO II
[|  .  +.  TECHNICEE

  ae  ony
  ee  JULY 31, 1969 ©

  en  PREPARED BY:
  oo  MISSION OPERATIONS BRANCH
  souuame  FLIGHT CREW SUPPORT DIVISION

  OSES:  Downgraded at 3-year
  SEITE  intervals;  declassified
  Se  after 12  years

 }  ee  with
  the tea,
  in NOTICE: This document may be exempt from sory fgeres
  OSE  transmission or  public disclosure under the Freedom of Infor- verson is
  SE  ison:  prohibited by 14  mation Act (S U.S.C: 592). Requests for its re-
  lease to persons outside the U.S. Government
  should be hancled under the provisions of
  NASA Policy Directive 1382.2.

  CENTER
  21.0  VISUAL SIGHTINGS

ARMS TRONG  Most of the items in Section 21, Visual Sightings, have

  been previously reported.

  21.4  TRANSLUNAR AND TRANSEARTH FLIGHT

ALDRIN  There was only one minor observation returning from the

  Moon.  Looking back at it, at a time after Mars had passed

  behind the Moon, there was one time period where I imagined

  that the image of Mars was coming from a region where it

  couldn't come from, because it was in a dark portion of
  the Moon.  This obviously was an optical illusion of some

  SOT'U's

ARMS TRONG  I suspect that it was, in fact, just immediately adjacent

  to the horizon.

ALDRIN  We must have looked at it immediately after it had come

  from the back side.

ARMSTRONG  Yes.

  21.5  LUNAR ORBIT

ALDRIN  In lunar orbit, following Je we did note and mention
  to the ground that approaching CDH when the Earth came up

  above the lunar horizon, I observed what appeared to be a

  fairly bright light source which we tentatively ascribed
ALDRIN  to a possible laser.  That seemed to be the best possible
(CONT'D
  )
  explanation until we were coming back in the command module

  approaching the Earth and were able to observe something

  that gave about the  same appearance.  When putting the

  monocular on the light source, it appeared as though it

  was the reflection of the Sun from a relatively smooth body

  of water such as  a lake.  I think we've revised our initial

  conclusion as  to what the  source of that light was that we

  saw coming  from the Earth.  If no one  owns  up to having

  beamed the laser toward the Moon at that time, it was more

  xp ChAbE a reflection off a: lake. ‘I still think it's an
  unusual phenomenon,  at that  distance,  to see so bright  a

  source of light.  In the film, it didn't appear as though

  this was going to show up at all.  The Earth was too bright.
