DECLASSIFIED

  thor

  HEADQUARTERS

  IN. REPLY  AIR DEFENSE COMMAND
  REFER TO:  MITCHEL FIELD, NEW YORK

  12 September  1947

  SUBJECT:  Unidentified Flying Object
  (Interview - Alpheus 0, Powell)

  SUMMARY OF INFORMATION:

  The following information was received 12 August 1947 from Mr,
  Alpheus 0, Powell, 28 Redwood Road, New Hyde Park, Long Island, relative
  to the sighting of a possible flying dise 4 August 1947,

  On 4 August 1947, Mr Powell, an Airlines Captain with Pan American
  Airways, Inc., was the first pilot of a Constellation type aircraft on a
  flight from Gander, Newfoundland, to La Guardia Field, New York.  Mr. Powell
  took over the aircraft at Gander, Newfoundland and departed at approximately
  1230 P.M., Eastern Daylight Saving Time for La Guardia Field, New York.  At
  1600 P.M., at a position approximately midwey between the Everett (Mass) fan
  Marker and the Bedford Radio Beacon (Everett is 3 miles MW of Boston, Mass.,
  end Bedford is 15 miles BW of the same city) both Mr Powell and Mr W. White,
  navigator on this trip, sighted unidentifieble flying objects. To the best
  of Mr, Powell's knowledge, the following weather conditions existed at that
  times  Visibility was goods cloud coverage was from 6-8/10ths, with tops at
  10,000 feet; end the wind at the 8,000 foot level was estimated as being
  270/25 miles per hour,  ‘The sircraft was at 8,000 feet; airspeed 265 mph;
  and the course was  244 degrees, magnetic.

  Mr White, who was sitting in the co-pilots seat (the right side of
  the cockpit) first called Mr. Powell's attention to a bright orange objeot,,
  which was on the right side of the plane, snd slightly below the level of the
  aircraft, Mr Powell was unable to see the object, es he had no visibility to
  the right and down, from his position, Mr Powell immediately glanced out his
  side window and noticed, at a 45° angle to the left, and midentified flying
  abject. It was about one mile away at an altitude of approximately 7,800
  feet. Mr Powell banked to obtain a better view of the object. The object
  was under observation for approximately 50 seconds, end during this time was
  viewed by Mr Powell, Mr Powell described the object as being about the length
  of a P-40 fuselage, blunt at both ends, cylindrical in shape, and having a
  bright orange hue.  Mr Powell stated that the object had a definite shape, and
  that there was no suggestion of gaseous dissipation as there would be if the
  orange color were the exhaust from a rocket, or a jet aircraft.  Mr Powell
  estimated the course of the-oebjest to be 200° magnetic, end that the object
  was travelling at approximately 160 mph,  Mr Powell lost sight of the object,
  when a cloud came between the aircraft and the object.  The pursuit of the
  object was not continued, inasmuch as it would have necessitated o departure
  from the established airways,
  GCONFTBENTAE

  HEADQUARTERS

IN  REPLY
  AIR DEFENSE COMMAND
  TO:
  MITCHEL FIELD,  NEW YORK
REFER

 aircraft
in conjunction with contract flying for the AAF,  Mr  White states that he
has flow with Mr Powell on a number of occasions, and he considers him
to be a very stable persons; completely reliable, and not given to
"flights of  fancy".

Related Report:  See Summary of Information, 12 September 1947, Hq ADC,
subject, "Unidentified Flying Objects” (interview - Alpheus 0, Powell).

Previous Distribution:
 - Mone
  Evaluation
Distribution

 ~ AAFP (8 copies)  of source  of information
 = ADC (2 copies)  C  3
AGENTS WOTES:  Mr. A.  0.  Powell  is  a  graduate of  the  Aviation Cadet  Flying
Training Program, having graduated from Maxwell Field, Alabama, with the
Cless of 41-C,  Since graduation, Mr, Powell has flown for Pan American
Airways  and,  at  this  date,  has  over 4,000 command  pilot  hours  to  his  credit.
Mr. Powell  eppears  to be  a calm,  intelligent  individual,  not  given  to
flights of  fancy,  or easily swayed by what he has previously read in the
newspapers  as regards  reports  of  this type.  Mr, Powell has a fear  of  publicity and seemed hesitant to even tell his story lest he become the object of
ridicule,  Mr Powell was  questioned as  to  the possibility that what he
sighted might have been a tow target,  a pilot balloon,  or a radiosonic device
used for meteorological purposes.  Mr Powell stated that he has  seen numerous
pilot balloons, radiosonic devices  and tow targets, while on flights;  the
object observed on thas flight definitely was not one of them,

  Evaluation
Previous  Distribution:
  - None  of  source  of  information

  ¢  3

Distribution
- AAP (3 copies)
=~ ADC  (2 copies)
  RESTRICTED

BASIO:  Ltr. Hq, BARD, Birmingham AAP
  , Birmingham,  Ale,, ata & July 47,
  subj:  Report on Local "Flying
  Disc,
  *

  pee  lst Ind,
314K  be %  D
  »  TOURTEENTH AIR FOROE,  Orlando,  Florida,

TO:  Commanding General, Air Defense
  Command, Mitchel Meld, New York
  ,
  1.  Forwarded for information of
  your Headquarters,

  2.  This Headquarters has made no inve
  stigation of "Flying Disc"
reports because this is  an isolated case,

  FOR THE COMMANDING GENERAL:

3 Incls:  a/e

  zich
  RESTRICTED
Report on Lega) Chay sng Disc”
D333.5 ID  Jul 47  -  2nd Ind
HQ., AIR DEFENSE COMMAND, Mitchel Field, New York, 25 July 1947.

TO:  Commanding General, Army Air Forces, Washington 25, D. C.
  ATTN:  AC/AS=2

  Forwarded for your information.

  FOR THE COMMANDING GENERAL:

  n/c  Colonel, GSC
  Asst Chief of Staff-Intell.
  ews
  AFurnished by the U, 6, Weather

  For  Birmingham  and  Yic‘nity-
  “Partly cloudy and warm today, to-
  night and tomorrow vain 2 few
  High today 86, low tontohtafternoon.
  scattered
  70, high
  tomorrow 90.

Flying Saucers Reported
  xx  PRICE:  5  CENTS

From 39. States, But Seem
To Be Concentra ted Here
  City Is Baffled By
  Dazzling Display
  Of: Spooky Discs

  were over Birmingham

  seen the mysterious objects agree
  On one thing everyone who

  After
  —they are round, saucer-like.
  that, every story differs. Each of

  ported wieaieg the baffling sky
  the  of callers
  hundreds,  who  re-

  demonstrations here last night had
  & different version  of what  they
  Saw.
  Some said  tne  objects  were
  ional small. They oad mov-

  bn OBin the air, There was sound
  it speed. They  were sus-

  the
  formation.  They  were  colliding
  ‘with each other.

  mingham residents saw the objects
  than in any Peer place.

  were swamped with calls. Report-
  ers, office boys, copy readers—
CAMERA  HERE  CATCHES  “FLYING  $AUCER”—Robert  Cross-  everyone in the place was called
land, Age-Herald copy reader, has camera  proof that the much-dis-  into’  action.
cussed flying discs were over Birmingham last night.  The picture  Reports camte in from Edgewood,
above was made by Mr. Crossland at 8:37 p.m. last night at his home  Mountain Brook, Avondal
at 20th Street and Highland Avenue,  He said he gave the film ig  side,  Fairfield,  ‘Pratt  C:
15-second exposure.  End,
  p ag iygeayt?

  ai|
  He eHefiHa
  ent
  aytas
  sasean ag ngage®
  it
  3

  tel
  ' F) 355 A

  iy :
  i
  § s..
  3
  3  ‘  Wie
  igelbai*asteli ea
 a
  s  3
  F  Li
vinteal
  3s

  rH 3:
  ii aff  &
  n
  RADIO-c. 'UIDED

  my opinion
3
F
e
  , says LA
  ii T HTuis ara ee
3
2
  aot¥~
  D
  iik
  haet te

=
  4lp!uimfr, ea
3
2,
  Hfexe abl eaph aiHlEHARAjillfh3
 ae
 We Bgoeilut Fi qe
al  il  ut fu
  P e  |

  aa
  a a it

  if
 eye

  m e“i lw i t
  i e
  ‘i
  ati

  i pei
  PERSa
  aetie

  ian

  S
  a

  Ral iceg TABLES”
  called to find out if Tm
  Bessem
  e said  er Su
  Gordon Mize,
  : Mrs.

  Selagh qne athe
  per

  “this
  bE

  [Mca
  lt  ies
  Aa
  bap
  ———
  oh  af

  |
  and traveled
  |
  to
  curve from southwest  Southeast
  |The saucers came at intervals of
  ut
  five seconds.
  | abo
 a
 ig
a a
  tl
  ,  Hie  eal
  a
  tal sat  e in e
  hae neee
  wnt
  a
  bit a
gaat? uA;cP
ty
  i
Hi baHuin i
 =  Be a
  I,  Staff Sergeant Ira  L.  Livingston,  RA  14  153  972,  Air  Corns,
approximately  250 hours  flying  time  as  pilot  and  Armorer  Gunner have
the  following  statement  to  make  concerning  the.  avnearence  of "Plying  Discs"
in the vicinity  of Rirmingham,  Alabama,

  At 2045 hours, 6 July 19417, while I was  eating summer at my residence
at 135% Meadow Lane, Green Acres, Birmingham,  Alabama, my next door neizhbdor,
Mr. Herman M.  Sookwel!,  called  for me  to  come  to  the  front  door  that  there were
 some "Flying Miscs"  outside.  Immediately  I  went  out  in  the  front yard  to
 observe the  oBjects.  The objects  anneared  to  the West  of Birmingham  traveling
in  a  South astern @4rection.  They  onveared  to be  ennroximately  2900  feet
above the horizon at - 15 degree angle from where I wes  standing
 estimated  distance  away.  The objects  snneared  to  be  approxima
 feet  in diameter, round  in  shane,  vroducing=n  dim glow of light  end  treveling
 at an estimatda.sneed of five (5)  to six (6) hundred miles ver hour.
 The objects or object anvenred to be traveling in »  definite sre rather than
 straight  and  as  soon ss  one was  out  of  sight  another  would  annear  behind
 it,  but  not  always  in the  s=me vath.  I  saw one  that  seemed  to  come  straight
up.  The view of where  it  came  from was  obstructed by  ©  nearby house;  and
when  it  reached  the  altitude  of  avnrroximately  2000feet,  it  started  off  in
 the  same direction as the  others.  I  did not  at  any time  see any  more  than
 one at the  time and  even.though  there  could have been only  one,  my  rereonel
belief is that there were seven (7)  to ten (10).  The Discs were silent and
 appeared to be composed  of a  single light.

  Sw
  A ag
  e a
  Ira L. 2 SS PaaS
  Steff Sergeant, RA 14 153 972

 Subscribed end sworn to before me thie 7th day of July 1947.

  JAMES Le {ior A LATE
  1st  Lt.  ac
  Asst  Adj.
  7

  GONFIBENRAL  ae
  WEADQUARTERS, NEWFOUNDLAND BASE COMMAND.
  ANTIC  DIVISION,  AIR  TRANSPORT
  2, 3y 2
  COMMAND  gt
: RESTRICTE  » FORT PEPPERRELL, NEWFOUNDLAND
  APO 862,% POSTMASTER,  NEW YORK,  N.  Y.

8 REPLY REFER

  oo
Ld

  SUBJECT:  Letter of Trensmittel,

  To  3  Commanding General,
  Atlantic Division, ATC,
  Fort Totten,  Island, N.Y.
  (ATTENTION:  40/8, Intelligence)

  Reference latter of Transmittal, this office, dated 28 July
  19
  with
  47 four (4)
  , inelosures (Inclosures 1, 2 and 3, Final Reporte of
  Sightings of "flying saucers"; and Inclosure 4, Signed Statement - Con
  stable. KEARSEY)  transmitted herewith is Final Report
  of Sighting of
  "flying saucers" in Newfoundland, which occurred at Haruon
  /
  Fiela® Stephen-
  ville, Newfoundland at 03452, 23 July 1947.

  ;  MARION C.  MILLER,

  1 Inels  ry Tacthigene
  ~  Pinal Rpt of Sighting, 23 Jul 47  .

  ist Ind.

  MQ, ATLANTIC DIVISION, ATC, FORT TOTTEN, L.I., NEW YORK  6 Aug 47

  TO:  Commanding General, Air Trensport Command, Washington 25, D.C.
  ATTN: Chief of Staff

  Forwarded in accordance with inst:  ons outlined in
  TWX CM95, your Headquarters.  4

  vi Incl:
  n/c
  oF POBS6L
  16d on

  RESTRICT Elpnus revcer’ or stonrINgZ)y/° Ze EEA TY
  Ce
  fg  POPP
  2

1.  Organization:  1388th AAF Base Unit  :  ied
  APO 864, c/o Postmaster, New York, N.Y. °

  Sighting  Strange intermittent flashes that may tie in
  with "Flying Discs”.

  Place  Harmon Field, Stephenville,  ‘ewfoundlend.

  Time  03452, 23 July 19h7.

  Altitude  Approximately 10,000 feet high.

  Weather  High scattered condition; visibility better
  than fifteen (15) miles.

  Heading  From South, heading NNE (approximately 30° )

  Speed  High velocity; stated to be faster than a
  conventional airplane.

  Description :  The observers saw a light which at first appeared
  to be a shooting star or airplane.  It appeared
  agein,  and a mmber of intermittant flashes were
  seen for a period of approximately three (3) minutes.
  The flashes were reddish in color. Observers said it
  was not a falling star because it did not appear as
  such;  nor was it an airplane,  because manoeuvers were
  too abrupt and there was no noise of a motor,

  Miss Patricia Abbott, (Newfountland National) Government
  Employee ard Lt. Hammaker, Navigator and Public Relat-
  ions Officer.

  The informants (noted in Par.10) were walking when they
  noticed a peculiar reddish light.  Both Miss Abbett and
  Lt. Hammaker stated that at first, they thought it was
  a falling star, but if left no streak.  It appeared
  again; they thought it might be a plane flying at a
  very high altitude.  After observing its menceuvers,
  they concluded, because of the silence (no hum of motor)
  ani abrupt darts of the light, it was definately not
  an airplane.  Neither Miss Abbott nor It. Eammaker hai
  seen anything like it before.

  WILLIAM H. Sint
  Captain, Air Corps,
  Intelligence Officer.
  Lhe  ht  4  27
  a

  oe  HEADQUARTERS
  Newfoundland Base Command, ATID=ATC
  Fort Pepperrell, Newfoundland
  APO 862,’ c/o Postmaster, New York, N. Y.

  a  28 July 1947
  i ae
  SUBJECT:  Letter of Transnittel.

am r0  ‘i ny  mating General,  r.)  A
  ng egg
  *"(arrenrtoms” ry + IntelligenTece) ag  ¥
  1. Transmitted herewith, es inclosures 1, 2 and 3, ere Final
  Reports of Sightings of "flying saucers" in Newfoundland and vicinity
  listed as follows:

  Final Report of Sighting - 20002, 10 July 1947
  ®  ®  .  ()  = 00302, 11 July 1947
  °  < *  La  © 001
  20 July
  52,  1947

  2.  Reference TH - EN 18469, this headquarters, dated 1217302
  July 1947, regarding sightings of “flying seucers* by Constable ERIC
  KEARSEY, Newfoundland Constabulary, at Grand Falls, Newfoundland,
  on
  the night of 9 July 1947, attached herewith, as inclosure 4,
  18 signed
  statenent off this sighting by Constable KEARSET.

  FOR THE COMMANDING GENERALs

  ‘  ss C. MILLER,
  Captein, Air Cotps,
  4 Incles  M/S, Intelligence,
  1,  Final Rpt of Sighting, 10 Jul 47
  -  Wit  ey  s  » 11 Jul 47
  .  ®  «  *  »  20 Jul 47

  Signed Statement - Const KEARSEY

  ESTRICTED
  RConrr  e:..c
  estes
  FINAL REPORT OF SIGHTING«o:  t  4  rid  5
  4  ‘  a_  ESe

org.  : 1388th AAF BU, NBC, ATLD, ATC. Harmon Field, Newfoundland.
Sighting  8 Flying Dise or other airborne object.
Place  s Approx six (6) miles SSW of liarmon Field.
Time  3 2000/7, 10 July 1947
Altitude  :  B= 10,000 ft.
Weather  :  Clear,  Scattered Cumlus & - 10, 000 ft.
Heading  i  NNE on horizontal course.
Speed  :  Very high velocity.  .
Shape & Size  Circular like a wheel, estimated to be same size as a C-54
  as seen from 10, 000 ft.
Color  :  Translucent or Silvery, left a “luish Plack trail approx
  15 miles long.
Photographs:  lr. Robert W. Leidy reported that he took two (2) Kodachrome
  snap shots of the trail.
Reperted By:  Mr. John N. Merhman, TWA mechanic; Mr. John W. Woodruff,
  PAA mechanic; and Wr. Robert E. Leidy, PAA mechanic reported
  the above facts to the Intelligence Officer on 15 July 1947.
  A Flash Report was TW ed to : Action copy Commanding
  General, 4q. ATC, Attn. Asst. Chief of Staff, Intelligence.
  Info copies: Commanding Generals Hq. ATLD and Ha. NBC
  Mister's Merhman, Woodruff, and Leidy were enroute from
  Stephenville Crossing to Harmon Field at the time of the
  sighting. Wr. Woodruff was the first to see the Disc, it
  appeared to rent or split the clouds thru which it passed
  and left a Pluish Black trail approx. fifteen (15) miles
  long behind it. The trail was similar to the afterglow of
  a powerful landing light or search light beam after it is
  suddenly switched off.  lhe object maintained a straight and
  horizontal course according to Mr. Merhman and Mr. Woodruff,
  Mr. ‘Leidy stated it appeared to be on a great curved course
  on a horizontal plane. The object disappeared into the
  North Northeast. Mr. Leidy says he took two (2) Kodachrome
  Photographs of the trail. ‘The film has been transmitted
  to the Asst. Chief of Staff, Intelligence, New@aundland
  Base Command for processing.

  CAPT. A.C.
  Intelligence Officer

  RESTRICTED

  CONFRENTAL——
  FINAL
  SNF De pe _
  REPORT OF  ING

  Organi sation:  1388th AAF Base Unit
  APO 864,  c/o Postmaster, New York,  N.Y.

  Sighting  Flying Disc or other airborne obje
  ct.

  Place  Codroy,  Newroundland,  59°03' W Leng.; 7°50"  N Lat.

  Time  00302 hours,  11  July 1947.

  Altitude  Approximately 6,000  feet.

  Weather  Clear;  at dusk.

  Heading  From northwest heading eastward.

  Speed  Very high velocity.

  Shape & Size:  Dise shaped; was reported as being the size of a
  barrel-head, dinner-plate and size of a plane
  that  is  flying high.  The trail  gave the whole
  object  the appearance  of  a  cone.

10, Color  :  Flame colored with a trail of a lighter flame color.

11. Reported by +  Mr. John Legge, Mr. Win.  Evans and Albert Samms of
  Codroy, NewfoundJand.

12,  General  Mr. Legge and Mr. Evans were standing outside Mr.
  Legge's
  store when they both sighted the object.  Both men stated
  that the disc was very bright with an after-low
  which
  made the object look like a cone.  It was a very clear
  night.  In spite of the high velocity of the flying
  object, they said they could not possibly have mistaken
  it for a plane or a falling star.  Besides the two men,
  the object was sighted by Albert Samms; he reported what
  he had  seen to his mother.  Mrs.  Samms  stated  that Albert
  was  in  no  way  alarmed  about  it,  he was alore  and  on  his
  way home when he  sighted  it,  and  watched  it while  it  was
  in sight.  Albert was quite convinced  from the color and
  behaviour  of the object  that  it was not a  plane,  but
  definately some flying object.

  The informant,  Mr. Legge,  is believed to be reliable,
  He isa man of approximately forty;  has had considerable
  experience as  foreman of Buchans  Mine,  Newfoundland,  where
  he was in  charge of three hundred men.  During the war,
  Mr. Legge was a mamber of a civilian volunteer Air
  Detection Corps.  With that » ckground, Wr. Legge stated
  that he  felt  sure that  the  object he had  seen was  some-
  thing new which he had never seen before.
Final Report of Sighting  gaNRIDENTIAL
General cont'ds
  blbert Samma is a twelve year old  boy. He was alone
  ng object, he was very defi
  when he saw the flyiseen  nite
  that ‘e nad never  anything like it before. tow  His
  tress  of  the  n,
  mother, Mrs. Samms, is the PestcriMisption,  felt  that  it
  and after heering Albert's des  of a “Flying Disc". Mr.
  answered  to thé desc  ripti on
  Legge reported his sighting shortly afterwards to Mrs.
  n to
  Sams berwse he was sure it should be made know
  rted ty
  her in order that the incident might be repo
  telegram immediately

  rted from a River
  There was one other sighting repocould
  Warden at South Branch.  The man  not be con=
  tucted at time of interviews with other parties.
  However, a second-hand description of his sighting
  was obtained, and it agreed with the sightings at
  Codroy.

  WILLIAM H. SMITH
  Captein, Air Corps,
  Intelligence Officers
  CONFIDENTIAL-
  FINAL REPORT OF SIGHTING

  Organization:  1388th AAF Base Unit
  APO 86h, c/o Postmaster, New York,  N.Y.

  Sighting  Flying Disc  or other Airborne Object.

  Place  On board Steamship "BURGEO" enroute
  from Sydney,
  Nova Scotia to Port avy Basques,  Newfoundland,
  about  one hour  out  from  Sydney.

  Time  0015Z 20 July 19h7.

  Altitude  30° off the horizon at an estivrated quart+
  mile range.

  Weather  Clear and dark,

  Reading  $  NNE (30° East of True North) on horizontal plane.

  Speed  $  High velocity,  stated to be facter than a tracer bullet.

  Description +  Observers did not see the object,  they saw its flashes
  and all  four  observers agreed there were  four  (h)  or
  five (5) flashes approximately one (1) second apart
  and equidistant.  The flashes were  said to be  silvery
  to reddish in color, an? were described by two
  observ-
  ers to be like  those  of a  Fire  Fly  only larger and at
  equal intervals,  and did  not look like a shooting  star
  or airplane.

  Messrs Maitland, Larkin,  Douglas and Hamilton of
  Hamilton, Metcalfe and Kansas City Bridge Companies
  which concern is doing the  construction at Harmon Field.

  The four gentlemen (noted in Par.10) and Captain Gullage,
  Vaster of the "Burgeo", were standing on the starboard
  deck, and as the Captain was trying t) jescribe a previous
  sighting, he saw the flashes; the other four gentlemen
  also saw them as described herein, and believed that it
  was not a meteorite  or airplane because of its speed,
  color, and evenly spaced discharges or flashes.

  Ceptain Gullage told the four gentlemen that he had seen
  the  same thing at approximately the same time and location
  (ship's position) on the evening of 15 July 197, except
  at that time, the object or flashes were traveling faster
  and frequently @hanging
  abruptly several ‘inse) and was headed generally to the
  course (he said it changed course

RESTA-
'  .
Final Report  o

 General cont'd  : SSW,  The Captain also told the four gentlenen
  that he  willing to make a complete report
  if the  inform ation is desired for official
  purposes.

  ZZ  a  3

  WILLIAM H. SMITH
  Captain,  Air Corps
  Intelligence Officer.
  :  Fiying Disks" or other object

  rr  10th July?

  msn

  iitfs
od

  1#8 ye Hit
d4

di

Gd

 @  vas the appre:
  inate altitude of the clouds?
 A.  1'a ey frem 6000 feet to 10,000 fect.

 Qa.  How was this Disk travelling, horiscntal » descending
  or ascending?
 a  Tt was horizontal.

 Q.  Adout how Dig aia it appear
  to yout
 a  Tron the height of it, 1%4 say it was about the sise of a 54 or a
  Constellation.
  RESTRICTED

: Interrogation of John B. Woodruff (Cont'd)

  What kind of a break did it make in the clouds?-
  It cut a straight path right through the cloud.

  Did it leave a trail?
 re  Yes, it left a trail dark blueish in color similar to a high pover
  light, The trail was from approximately fifteen (15) to twenty
  (20) miles long.

  Have you ever seen a meteor?
 Tt?  Yes.

  De you think thie was a meteor?
 re.  No, I don't think so, it was cat too clean. This wae as straight
  a8 an arrow.  .

  a  What was the course of the object?
  a  Well, looking at the map I'd say North North Bast.

  &  Have you been working around airplanes long enough to know the
  Size of an aircraft and the height from a distance?
  a.  Tes.

  Q  Foy. long have you been working around aircraft?
  a.  (7)
  Seven years.

  Were you in the Arny during the tine of the War?
  Fe  Bo.

  Did you take any pictures?
  of  Bo, I did not, but ome of the boys took sone.

  Do you thin k pictures will show up?
  the
  Fe  Tes, it was an ideal dey for pictures.
  /  op  eaed

  Rh. . “Yoct&
  jt. oF
  Chief Mechanic
  Pan American Airways

  ibeme
  to before
  Sworn and subscr  d|
  this 77  day of July 1947.

  Captain, Air Corps
  Adjutant
  HRADQUARTERS 13g6TH AAP BASE UNIT“4
  ~~
  WEWFOUNILAND BASE COMMAND, ATLD.Wavc
  APO 64, c/o Postmaster, New York, B. Y.

  16 duly 1947

  Interrogation of JOHN 3. MERRMAN, JR,, Supervisor and Mechan
  ic,
Trane World Airways, Harmon Field, Nevfoundland, taken at 1430 EIT,
16 July 1947, vy Captain Willien E, Smith, AC, Intelligence Office
  r.
Q.  How long have you been associated with aircraft and aviation?
4.  Since approximately 1935,

  Were you in the Army during the Var?
Fe  Yes.

  What 444 you do in the Arny?
Ee.  Aerial Gunner.

e  Did your job during the war entail you to de able to judge distance
  s
  and siz  of es
  objects and ranges?
  Yes.

  On the evening of 10 duly 1947,  see one of the so called
  *Fiying Disks” or an object in
  Tes, we were coming up over the  here and Stephen-
  Ville Crossing.  The car vas eeing up hill and we could see the sky
  thrthe
  oug windshie
  h ld,  Mr. Woodruff said "look at the out in the
  sky".  I looked up and saw a blueish black vapor trail.

  Did you see the object?
  “Bo, I just saw the trail as it was left behind.

  Can you describe the effect the object hed
  on the cloud formation?
  clouds were very scattered and vere about from 6000 feet to
  10,000 feet, the odject passed thro andugh cut the dloud leaving a
  where you could see the blue sky, like a knife had out it. The
  were feathered similar to a weld,  as if you cut a weld in half,

  appear to be descending, ascending, or horisontal?
  and seemed to remain on atrue course.

  imate of the course?
  North North Bast.

  estimate as to the sise of the object?
  ject
  l

Interrogation of John B, Nohrnea,

  ia coler, very easily disting  aished
  from the
  eel exhaust would be similar te it,

  fen chaped?
  re or less a band across the sky in @ straight path.

  Rovert Leidy.

  De you know vhat type of film Mr Leidy was using?
  Kodachrome,
  I delieve.

  De you know  Mr, Leidy caw the Disk or object?
  I don't believe so.

  RESTR  TED
  ah
  siflcatlon een  Ted igr  is
  “04
  te.
  2

  (Dat

Bseidie

:
  aa
  é i

G4

di  the altitude of the clouds?

a4
  WRESTRICTtinea

  ai
  |  $  : 3 8 : : 4 :

dd

  |ae
  tha
  i :
dd  i}

bi

3d
  4 | : i j
dd
  np Wie, Seas ae a abe So Serene
G4
  new?
  one the
  or four relic end I om not care whi  ch  -
Interrogation of REST mabe | (edap*a)
@  Ave you willing te give the Army a copy of the pictures of the
  trail?
a  Yes.

  Coptaia, My Corpse
  Adjutant
  S$ BURKE  OF THE  ID
  17 July  1947.

  At  approximately 10  o'eloek in  the  evening of 10  July  1947
I  was  standing by my  store  door;  I  happened  to  look  up and  saw
what  appeared  to  be  a  "FLYING  SAUCER".  It  definately  was  not  a
shooting star;  I'd seen several stars shoot before, but never like
this!  mor was  it an airoplane, it was too "lit up” and traveling
at toe great a  speed.  It wasn't an siroplane on fire because it
would have fallen in the water.  It was a niee elear night, no
elouds, it nas just getting dark.  I would say it was traveling at
the rate of a shooting star but mueh eloser.  I'd say roughly at
6,000 feet.  It was visible for about  fifteen (15)  seconds.  It
eame from the North West heading Eastward.  The cirele looked to
be about the size of a barrel head, and the trail behind looked
to be about fifteen (15) feet long.  The trail behind the dise
made the whole object look like a eone.  Another thing that makes
me feel sure it  wacn't af shooting star is;  a shooting star usually
leaves  a temporary  streak,  this  object  I  saw  left  mo  streak only
the one that  appeared to travel  behind the eirele whieh looked like
an after-glow.  The  eirele was  ea bright  red,  nearest  I could  deseribe it would be the eolor of a flame,  the after-glow(eone-shaped)
was  a fainter  shade.  What  I  saw  last  Thursday night  resembled a
shooting star in no way whatsoever.  There was only one.

  Y
  RY  <  2S
  *~ JOHN P. LEGGE
  /  ye,
  "4
  Witness:
  /. ~
  @ESTRICTED  e@

STATEMENT OF MR, WM.  EVANS,  CORDROY{ NEWFOUNDLAND.  TAKEN BY
MERCEDES BURKE OF THE INTELLIGENCE OFFICE? HARMON FIELD, NBW-
FPOUNDLAND.  17  July 1947.

  At approximately 10 e'elock in the evening of 10 July 1947,
I was standing outside Mr. Leggo'’s store talking with him.  We
both saw this thing desh aeross the sky.  I eouldn't be eceurate
about the direetions.  If it was a shooting ster, I'd never seen
one as large before, and it was mueh brighter than anything I've
ever seen in the skys  It looked to be a round object, I eouldn't
say it was anything else but round; it‘had a teil on it whieh
showed yellowish, but not as bright as the eirele which appeared
and nearest I could deseribe it would be sort of red and yellow.
The streak behind, I would say, was little over a yard long; the
eirele looked te be about the size ef a large dinner plate.  It
went so fast, it was hardly in sight  before it disappeared.  I
eould not give any idea of the height; all I ean say is it was
much eloser than a shooting star. and travelling at a great speed.
Whatever it was it was flying through the air, it wasn't just
a streak across the sky. To me it wasn't in any way like a
shooting star, and I am sure it wasn't an airoplane. If ealled it
a "FLYING SAUCER" beeause it seemed exactly like what we hed been
  so mueh about on the radio.
hearing

  ee
  —

  Witness: ad Ww  +

  Witness: Whtahe Bisse
STATEMENT OF  I
MERCEDES BURKE  OF  THE  INTELLIGZIC
POUNDLAND.  17  July  1947.

  Last Thursday night I was out  by our house,  I  happened te
look up and saw wheat I thought was  an airoplane.  It-was fiying
at  the height of a plane that is flying high.  Then  I  thought
it  leoked strange for an airoplane, beeause it  wes all  lit up
so  bright,  planes  do  have  a  light  or  two,  but  this  thing  was  very
bright  -  sort  of  a bright  reddish yellow.  I  sew  it  only  for  a
minute because it was travelling at a teriffie  «peed. It shot
out of sight so quiekly I thought it strange if it was an airoplane.  THSH, I remembered what I'd been hearing about "¥LYIND
SAUCERS" I ran in and told my mother.

  Witnese: 7 i  rw
  fo— Aa

  Witness:
  Albert  rushed  in  and  t  1@  me  about  this  thing  he'd  just  seen.
  ret  he  thought  it  wag  an  airoplene  but  then  he  remembered
having  heargd  about  "FLYING  sauc  "and  he  thought  that's  what
it  must  have  been,  I  questioned  him;  he  said  it  eouldn't  have
been  a  plane  because  a  plane  wouldn't  shoot  down  like  that  did,
besides  it  was  too  "lit  up"

  Mr.  Legge  reported  the  feme  thing  to  me  in  order  thet  I  might
 Pp
report  same  to  St.  John's  in  the  morhing.
  6

  Mrs  JOHN  SAMMS.
NEWFOUNDLAND CONSTABULARY

  STATION Grand Falls,
  DATE July 13th. 1947.
  .
  SUBJECT  Re;- strange objects seen flying over Grand
  is on night of July 9th.  at approx,

  Sirs
  I Forveskeuliy. repert for your information that on
  ednesday night,  9th.  inst.  I arrived home from
  duty at approx.  11.30.

  Upon arrival at home I joined ay wife, my mother-in-law
  and Mr. John Jackman a resident of St. John's and frie
  of the family, who were sitt.  on the front steps of
  the  house.I was asked by my wife if I had seen
  “flying saucers" I thought she was  joking and replied
  that I had seen nothin, flying. Jac  and my mother-
  in-law then told me that  they had agin  seen four objects
  flying in an easterly direction just before I arrived,
  I asked them to describe what they had seen. Jackman said
  that four round shaped figures had passed overhead at a
  terrific speed and were flying side by déide.
  On looking skywards again my wife,  Jackman, and myself
  saw a object which I would describe as be  @ huge je
  fish flash across the the sky. It would be  difiicuit to
  determine its height and speed owing to the brief period
  it was visible.  it's colour also would be hard to say,
  but there seemed to be « phosphorus glow about it, it
  was round in shape and about the size of a barrel head,
  it appeared to be flying in a rocking motion.

  This sir, is about all I can say about the matter, we
  continued to sean the sky for about a half hour but no
  sign of them were seen again,  y;
  i

  Arie ~~ LAV
  ns
  Constable,  4

  LeStrange Esq,  J.P.  b
  Chief
  of Police.  n

  LeStrange E@qe, JePey
  Chief  Police.
  STATION Grand Falls,
a  j  DATE  July 13th, 1047.

  SUBJECT Re;- strange objects seen  over Grand
  Falls on  ht of July  at approx,

  Sirs
  I respectfully  report for your information that on
  Wednesday night,  oth. inst. I arrived home from
  duty at approx. 11.30.
  ‘

  Upon arrival at home I joined may wife,  mother-in-law,
  and Mr. John Jackman a resident of St.  John's and friend
  of the family, who were sitting  on the front steps  of
  the hou
  I was asked
  se.  by my
  wife if I had seen
  "flying saucers" I  she was —" and replied
  that I had seen nothin,  e Jac!  and my mother-
  in-law then told me that  had really  seen four objecte
  ¢  in an easterly direction just  ore I arrived,  -
  I asked them to describe what they had seen. Jackman said
  that four round shaped figures
  terrific speed and were  side by éide.
  On looking skywerds again my wife,  Jackman, and
  saw a object which I would describe as de  ug
  dstar
  ete180 ding
  ts Saget tol spe
  tpt ovleg"ta
  abe eeiet pated
  it was visible.  it's colour also would be hard to
but there seemed to be a phosphorus glow about i
was round in shape and about the size  of a
  it appeared to be flying in a rocking motion.

  ( fi s “7
This sir, is about G12 5 ook Say spewt 2s PAV Ss we

  9 T e P o y |
con’  to sean the eky for about a half hour but ne

a s o
sign of them were seen again,  :

  LS  Eeqey JoPoy
Chief  Police.  .

  .  RESTRICTED  |
  From detailed study of reports selected for their impression of
veracity and reliability, several conclusions have been formed:

  , (a) This "flying saucer" situation is not all imagi  or seeing
too much in some natural phenomenon, Something is really flying around,

  (b) lack of topside inquiries, when compared to the prompt and
demanding inquiries that have originated topside upon former events,
give more than ordinary weight to the péssibility that this is a domestic
project, about which the President, etc. know.

  (c) Whatever the objects are, this much can be said of their physical
appearance:
  1, The surfaced of these objects is metallic, indicating a metallic
skin, at least.
  2. When a trail is observed, it is lightly colored, a Blue-Brown
haze, that is similar to a rocket engine's exhaust. Contrary to a rocket
of the solid type, one observation indicates that the fuel may be throttled
which would indicate a liquid rocket engine.
  3. As to shape, all observations state thut the object is cireular
or at least elliptical, flat on the bottom and slightly domed on the top.
The size estimates place it somewhere near the size of a C-54 or a Constellation,
  4. Some reports describe two tabs, located at the rear and
symetrical about the tim axis of flight motion.
  5. Flights hawe been reported, from three to nine of them, flying
good-formation on each other, with speeds always above 300 knobs.
  6. The discs oscillate laterally while flying along, which could
be snaking.
  CONFIDENTIAL

  Office of the
  READQUARTERS FOURTH AIR FORCE
  Assistant Chief of Steff,
  if (6
  A-2
  Intelligence
  ‘Hamilton Field,  California

4AFDA  25 August 1947
333.5/1208-1  ‘

SUBJECT:  Investigation of  Flying  Disc.

TO:  Headquarters,  Army Air Forces,  Washinrton 25, D.  C.
  TTENTION:  AC of AS-2

  1.  The  attached  true  copy of the  letter  of Mr. F.  .  Johnson of
Portland,  Oregon,  was  received  by  this  officer  22  August  1947.

  2.  Your attention  is  invited  to  the  similarity  of  statement  by
Mr. Johnson  and  Mr. Arnold.

  3.  This  letter  is  being  referred  this  date  to  the  Special  Agent
In  Charge,  PBI,  Sen  Francisco,  for  eny  investigation  they may  care  to
make.

  Pg

  LOr.24lA/.
  POKALD L.' SPR
  Lt.  Colonel,
  -dohnson  AC of  S,  An2
  CONFIDENTIAL

  PORTLAND,  OREGON,  August  20th  1947

  Lt.  Col.  Donald L.  Springer, Assistant Staff

  Sir.
  Saw in the portland paper a short time ago in regards to
an article  in regards to
  the so called flying disc having any basis
of fact.  1 can say am a prospector and was in the Mt Adams district
on dune 24th the day Kennet Arnold of 3o0ise Idaho claims he saw a
formation  of flying disc.
  And i saw the same flyin- objects at about
the  same time.
  Having a telescope with me at the time i can asure you
they are real and noting like them I ever saw before they did not pass
verry high  over where  I  was  standing  at the  the  time,  plobly  1000  ft.
they were Hound about 30 foot in dimater tapering  sharply to a point  in °
the head end in an oval  shape. with a  bright top  surface.  I  did not
hear any noise as you would from a plane.  But there was an object in
the teil end looked like a big hand of a clock shifting from side to
side like a big magenet.  ere speed as far as i know seemed to be
greater than enything I ever saw.  last veiw I cot of the objects they
were  standing on edge  Banking  in  a  Cloud.

  Yours Respectfully

  /s/  F. M. Johnson
  106 No.  West  lst  Ave
  Portland,  Oregon

  NAL  e  SPRINGE!
Lt.  Colonel,  GSC,
AC of S,  An-2/
  |

  30,July' 1907
  PORTLAND,  OXEGUN
  :  hat
  C-E-R-T-1-¥-I-C-A-T

  Street,
  un 30 July 1947 Mr Hichard xankin, 634 N. s. Simpson substan
 Forte  s  Qregon was interv ewed by this agent and stated in  ce as
follows:
  My name is Richard-Rankin, I aml? yearo old and have flow since
I was nineteen years old, I first soloed in m air  craft in 1919. I ave flow
over all the western parts of  the  United  Stetes  many  tims and have mapped
all of the western  part of the  United  States during  the  years before the
 late war for the  Forest Service. I am familia  r  with  almost every part of
the western United States, During  a great  part  of  my life  I have done stunt
flying for air shows  and variou s  other  types of  aerona  utical exhibitions. ly
brother was "Tex''Rankin who was quite well known  in  both  civilia n and Militay
flying circles for many years before his death andgduring the late war ran
thousands of Flying Cadets through primar y trainin schools owned and oper=
atdd by him. To date I mve accomplished 7000 hours  in the air as pilot of
both civilian and Military aircraft. feel I an well acquainted with most articles
that one would see  in  the air  and  I  that I am well qualified to say
when I see articles flying through the air, althoug  h I would not attempt to
say that I am infallable and  state  that I could  definitely identify every ~object that might  be  flying through  thé air, The followi ng is.an account of
what I saw on 1 June 1947 from the yard of my home at 1&4 South "1 St,
Bakersfield, California.

  At approximately 1200 noon on the Us of June I was lying in the
front yard of my home. There was a lad mowing the laim at the time,  I look
up into the sky and saw ten articles flying from the South to imately  th North at what
I wild judge to be 6500 f  5c  2 f  ab approx  what I
would judge to be  5  e  £  2  ed  before ,  I  have  done
quite a lot of map work for %  5  srvice  ,  I  dis  tly  rememb er  that
at the time I saw the article  tioned it  te  the  lad  who was  mowing  the
lawm at the time, I told t  the objects were in all probability
some sort of Arny or Navy &  s from the nearby test centers on the
 deserts of Southern Californt Having  Z  wledge of aircraft in
general I attempted  h  2  lam that th objects
were probably  ons
 At that time TI did
 objects were some sort  th
 resembled the pictures that I  t  SUe1,
 Flapjck aickk that the Jlavy  t  objec  s
  rocee  into the  2  1, At approximately
  ek into the ya  1  lie i  de. At this +:  the ob,
  3  from orth to South  4
  he  ofigi
  y
  ening]
  te  second time
  seven d  t
  lad,  ho
  had poceeded
  tha  was
Washington I realized that the articles thatI saw
I was still reluctant to mention this to anyone
ably say that
  ; I was crazy.'° After  time I ment:
editor af the "Oregonian", a Portland, Oregon
in Portland for the remainder of the ‘simmer.
with gy editor of ‘the paper is put forth in
article,

papers of the country,
convinced that tie
although I cann jot  say
what I tave said with no
  crater ome  cea  mae

  Dick Rankin Tells
  Of Odd Aircratt
  More reports of “flying flap-
  jacks” turned up Wednesday,
  one from no less than Dick
  Rankin, brother of the late Tex
  Rankin, and himself an expe
  rienced pilot of more than 7000
  hours’ flying time.
  Rankin, who is  recovering
  from an old back injury re
  ceived in an automobile acci-
  |dent, came to Portland over
  | the week end to spend the sum:
  |mer. He saw the “silver cau-
  leers”  over  Bakersfield,  Cal
  |June  23,  while  lying  on  the
  |lawn sun bathing, he told The
  Oregonian.
  ‘I hesitated to say much
  about them,” Rankin said, “un-
  til I noticed all the hullabaloo
  in the papers. I puzzled over
  their strange shape for a while
  and finally concluded that they
  were the navy's ne@® XPSU-1
  flying flapjacks, wbich are thin |
  and round, with twin propellers
  and stubby tail.”
  Only One XFSU-1 Built
!  (The navy and the manufac:
  turer have announced official-
  ly that only one such machine
  ‘was built and that it never left
  Connecticut.  s
  “These  planes  were  flying
  high, maybe 9000 feet, and fair.
  Jy  fast,  about 300 or 400 miles
  an  hour. I first counted ten of
  them in formation,  going north.
  About 2:15 P. M.  y returned
  on the reverse course, headed
  south, But there were only sev-
  en in the formation.
  “They were not Weaving or
| bobbing in formation I couldn’
| make out the number or loca-
  tion of their propellers  and
  couldn't distinguish any wings
  or tail. They appeared  almost
  round.  They  looked  like  pic-
  tures of the navy’s flying flap-
  jack,” Rankin said
  Rankin, who pl:  nd
  the summer here  3  .  EB.
  Simpson street,  is now able to
  resume a little flying for fun,
  but not commercially,  he said
  He now operates a string of
  auto court:  nding his win-
  ters at Palm  Springs.
  820 Burte

  ‘FaYiwa D1s0s

  Refer teletype te the Burem dated August 15, 1947.

  Inalosed please find the newspaper account carried
  Falls, Idaho “Pines  on August 15, together wth « sheet of
  = ©. URIS attempted to exeteh his impression of the instrument which he
  have seen.

  Concerning URIE's sketches, it may be noted thet he believed
  felled outer edge which he atte
  to create
  mp  in ted
  hisdrawing to
  @ foot through, UIE likewise believed that the tubinh or exhaust
  he and his sons clain te have seen was about a foot through and
  least to the back end of the device.  ‘The flame did not epmwar
  net to widen cut toward the back.

  BILLY and KELTE URIE stated that they could nee a knot on the side of
  the device from which the flames were shooting, and that they could see day
  The flanes did not
  leave any smoke or odor,

  The URIE boys thought that the "side view" sketch should show
  that
  the device was more sharply angled from bottom to top, while URIEZ himself
‘  thought that 1t was more streamlined and curved.  URI esid that the instru
  ment came 86 & poin
  or ted
  romded top.

  In his netations, URIE mistakenly ssid that he had seen it on fhurs-
  »  During interview, he stated that it actually hed been ez Wednesday,
  13, 1947, whehe and his sons saw the contrivance about 1100 P.M.

  see what he called the flying disc.
  for @ moment before it disappeared behind a hill which
  They
  flying at a great height, whieh
  ween four thousand and six thou
  send
  However, he said he had no idea how large
  the devices were and
Consequently,  they may have  been  several miles avay.  He  said
  that  he and
HAWKINS were satisfied they had seen somet
  hing and they were very
doubtful that they had seen twe plane
  s.
  RegionalNewspaper Serving  Nine Irrigated Idaho Cou
  TWIN FALLS, IDAHO, FRIDAY, AUGUST 15, 1947  ay ete

  Heads Up, Folks! The Dises Are Flying Again

  {

  }

  '

  SiDE view  BOTTOM VIEW  END VIEW  Hi
  |)  This is an artist's conception of the flying dise that A. C. Urie saw | sides, and could well be the inspiration for something new in women’
  sweeping through Snake river canyon six miles west of Blue Lakes | hats, such as a “flying saucer” creation, (Drawing by Vic Goertgen-)
  )|  ranch, It seemed to be veneies by jets raging a fiery oeson both | staff naravinn)

  Flying Saucer Rinerted Flashing Down Canyon
  *  *  *  x  *  *  *  *  *  *

  At 1,000 Miles Per Hour; Two Others Are Seen |
  By JOHN BROSNAN  jthe fast-flying objects the nation | scription of the flying discs seen by ) come concerned about what was de~
  I  ‘as  Magic  Valley  and  the|has yet produced  him and his son, Keith, 8,  walked down
  and Billy,  them, and had
  ting  to  let  go  of|  ‘The  flying  saucer  Urie  saw  was | 10:  the river to seeif  they were
  reeling  under  a|  Snake riv
  skimming along through  I  obtained  a  close-up  view  of j all  right
‘  ucer reports,  two|canyon  at  a  height  of  about  75|  the flying saucer as it passed by the  I had a side view at a distance,
  county men  feet at 1 p. m. Wednesday. At 9:30 | trout  rm at I p. m. Aug.  13 going | of about 300 feet and almost on a
  peculation on the myst  a. m. the same day, L. W. Hawk-
  | down  river canyon at a height | level with  the thing,”  Urie con-
  ivid descriptions of discs they | in:  ‘Twin  Palls  county  commis-|of  about  feet  from  the  canyon | tinued.  “Two  of  my  boys,  Keith
  sau  |sioner  and  former  county  sheriff | floor.  I  would  estimate  the  speed | and Billy, were below me and they
  From  A.C.  Urie,  | at about 1,000 miles per hour.”
  | from Filer, also saw two circular
  who operates  also saw  it  at  about  a 45-degree
  the  Auger  Falls  Trout  farm  six|objects  soaring  along  at  a  great|  Urie explained that the  incident | angle. They both got a bottom and
  niles west of Blue Lakes ranch in| height near Salmon dam 40 miles | occurred while the two boys were |a side view, and we were all look}
  Snake rive  ‘on, came perhaps | southwest of Twin Falls  coming across the river from the| ing at it from the south side of the
  | the most detailed account of one of}  Here is Urie's eye-witness de-|north side in a boat. He had be-|  (Continued  on  Page  &  Column  6)
  Saucer’ Seen
  lying Down |
  Snake Gorge
  (From  Page  One)
  river facing ‘loward the north. ‘The
  | boys saw it coming about half a
  | mile up the canyon, and we all lost
  [sight of it in less ‘than a mile.”
  While  the  impression  was  still
  | vivid in their minds, the three got |
  together  and made rough sketches  |
  of what  they had seen. These, in
  turn, were the  basis for the artist's
  conception  of  the strange affair by
  Vic Goertzen of Twin Palls
  for the
  Times-News.
  “It was all one color—sort of a
  light sky blue with a red,
  tubular
  fiery glow at the side of the
  top or
  hood,”  Urie continued.
  “The  canyon  floor  is  rough  at
  that  particular  point,  and  it  rode
  ‘up and down over the
  hills and hol-
  lows  at  a  speed indicating some
  *\type  of  control faster than  the
  }teflexes of man. It ts my opinion
  that it ts guided by instrument
  s and
  must be powered by atom
  ic energy,
  as it made very little
  noise—just
  S-W-l-s-h  as  it  passed  b;
  Urie described the size  about
  20 feet long by 10 feet high
  and
  10 feet wide, giving it an oblong
  shape. It might be described as
  look-
  ing  like  an  inverted  pie-plate  or
  ‘|  broad-brimmed straw hat that
  had
  been compressed from two
  sides.
  Pressed for his candid opinio
  n of
  Just what it was, Urie said that
  he
  Was convinced that  there was some-
  thing to this flying sauce
  r situation.
  “I know a number of the people
  who
  have also seen  them  and  I know
  “|that they're not just  imagining
  ;|Something or trying to  get their
  names  in  the  paper.”  Urie  com-
  ; | mented.  ’
  :|_  “I do know that it scared the boys
  and made me feel pretty uneasy,”
  he added.
  Tracing down a rumor that Count
  y
  Commissioner Hawkins had seen an
  unusual object  in  the  air on  the
  same day as Urie’s experience,
  the
  ‘Times-News called him at his Filer
  home.
  “Yes, T  ."  he  replied without
  hesitation.  “I'll have to admit I've
  been skeptical all along until I saw
  it with my own eyes. I can't say
  what it was, but I can say there's
  something in the air.”
  Hawkins related that while at
  Salmon dam Wednesday morning,
  a sound resembling the echo of a
  motor caused him  to look  upward,
  |
  and there he saw two circular ob-
  Jects that reflected light. They were
  traveling  at  a  great  speed  and_
  higher than most airplanes, accord-
  ing to Hawkins.
  Aside  from  this,  he  declined  to
  add details, except to say, “There's
  something in the air.”
  His general description, however.
  corresponded  closely  to  those  of
  hundreds of persons who reported
  seeing flying saucers after Kenneth
  Arnold,  Boise  businessman,  had
  touched off the deluge by telling of
  coming upon nine disc-like objects
  while he was flying in his private
  plane in Washington.
  ‘Thereafter, the nation became in-
  creasingly flying saucer conscious,
  creating a state of mind that made
  it possible for four ‘teen age Twin
  Falls boys to cause  a mild sensa-|
  tion when they  built a model flying|
  dise and tossed into a local yard
  July 10. This was subseuently re-
  vealed as a hoax, following investi-
  gation by the  army and FBI.
|  Thereafter  the  saucer  reports
  tapered off into a few scattered in-
  cidents.  until  the  question  was  re-
  vived by this week’s occurrences...
  Speculation  has  ranged  from
  mention  that  the  discs  could be
  army or navy guided missil
  e experi-
  ments, or that they could be similar
  experiments by some foreign
  coun-
  try.  to  “something  out  of  this
  Whatever. they are. a lot of people
  have seen “something.”  |
  HEADQUARTERS
  FLYING DIVISION, AIR TRAINING COMMAND
  Office of the Commanding General  v

  Randolph Field, Texas
  20 July 1947

  Unidentifiable Objects

  Commanding General
  Tenth Air Porce
  Brooks Field, Texas
  Attn:  ACofS, 1-2

  1.  The inelosed MOIC is forwarded for your information.

  2.  In the event that lt. B, B. Armhas
  str
  been intervi
  on  ewed
  g
by your Headquarters, request that a copy of the
  MOIC be furnished
to this Headquarters,

  FOR THE COMMANDING GENERAL:

Py per  ‘i H. L, CRISIER
  . Colonel, G.8.C.
  Asst. Chief of Staff, 4-2

333.5  1st Ina  De

HBADQUARTERS TENTH AIR FORCE, OFFICE OF THE ASST CHIEF OF STAFF, A-2,
  BROOKS FIBLD, SAN ANTONIO, TEXAS,  16 July 1947

TO:  Commanding General, Flying Division, Air Training Command, Randolph
  Fld., Texas
  ATIN:  -Asst Chief of Staff, A-2

  Inclosed is Memorandum for the Officer  in Charge in reference to
Lt. B. B. “rmstrong, as suggested in paragraph 2, basic communication,

1 Incl  S.H, MORROW
  MOIC, dtd 15 July 47  Colonel, GSC
1 Incl withdrawn  *  | Asst Chief,of Staff, A-2
  MOIC, dtd 7 July 47
  &  a Z z F F} 4 A Armstr
  ong, 0-2059709, 170th
AAP Base Unit,\» Verry Division, Brooks Pie o San Antonio,  Tems was
  ani the  information was obtained: Lt Armstrong
  William Picld  100 est on 26 June 194  in & 7-52
  7
ke
823

:
  :iy
  Sincere ; in the
  =.
  He neroly stated what he
  it the white objectswere.

 lawrense R. King, Jr, Special Agent, CIC, ADC
  UNIDINTIFIABLE OBJECTS
  WILLIAMS FIELD, CHANDLER,

MEMORANDUM FOR THE OFFICER IN CHARCEs

  1.  On 1 July 1947, Lt William
  G, McGinty, USN, 195803, P80
Student, Williams Field, Chandler, Arizona, was interviewed by
this Agent, and stated in substance:  That on 30 June 1947, at about
O9LO, MST, he was flying at 25,000 feet over Grand
a P60 type aircraft. He stated  that he  he:
Pield, Arizona, when he sax two round ob.
speeds, straight dow, He further stated that
turn away from the objects.  He further sta
tifiable objects followed the other seconds apart,
that due to the speed of the objects,
  he could only
circuand
  lar,
  that they were possible light gray in
Sta
  thet it
  ted  was his opinion that the objects were
eight feet in diameter.  In conclusion, he stated that the
would haw probebly hit the ground approximately twenty-five miles
south of the South Rim of Grand Canyon, Arizona,

AGENT'S NOTES:  Lt MeGinty gave his permanent address as: NeAcM.T.Coy
Point Hugu, Port Hueneme, Calif,

  2,  On 1 July 1947, Captain Maleolm 6. Amsetrong, 0~7341é68,
Instructor, Single  Ingine, Williams Field, Chandler, Arizona, was
interviewed by this Agent and stated in substance:  That his brother,
ist Lt &. Bs Armstrong, stationed at  10th AAF, Brooks A\F, Texas
had related to him that he san a format.  of unexplainable objects
in the vicinity
  of Lake Mead, Nev,  Captain Amstrong,  further stated
that his brother stated the objects were heading south, ani were at
approximately 10,000 feet altitude,

 AGENT'S NOTES: Captain Armstrong could not give teo much infomation
on the objects that his brother had seen. Lt, 5. B, Armstron  can be
  g
contac  at Hq,
  ted
  10th A\F, Brooks Field, Texas for further information,
Unidentifiaple Objects.
  2)
D 333.5 D (16 Jul AND,  ist Ind.
HQ AIR DEFENSE COMM  Mitcnel Pield, New Yorx, 21 July 1947.
  C.
70: Commanding General, Army Air Forces, Washington 25, D.
  ATTN:  AC/AS-2.

  1. Forwardea for your information and utilization.
  FOR THE COMMANDING GENERAL:

  49: ep OG
  @
  Colonel, asc A% Cal.
  . H. SMITH

  [~ Asst Chief of Staff-Intell.
©  HQ AIR DEFENSE COMUND, Mitcnel Field, Mew York, 21 Juiy 1947.
  Or Commanding  Ueneral, Aray Mir Forces, Uashington 25, D. C.
  ATTR:  AC,  ‘

  1.  Forwarded for your information and utilisation.

  POR THE COMMANDING GENERAL:

  R. . SMITH
  Galenel,  Gso
  Asst Chief of Staff-Inteti.
  HEADQUARTERS

  TENTH  AIR  FORCE
  BROOKS  FIELD,  SAN  ANTONIO,  TEXAS

  Office  of  the  Ai  Chief  of  Staff,  A-2
IN  REPLY  REFER  TO:

  Unidentifia ble  Objects

  2 omma nd i  General
  Air

  tignti
  o

  to  Unidentifia  sh  ¥  rters, |
  ion,  Air  irai  BC  nd  This  Off
  s  noted  in  for  the
  Charge

  ers  concerning
  CG  Ast Garr  ac/as-r)
  )

  DI
  ch R.
  IwTEL.  bas  5  AVE  97

  was  risner  [1 F73E

  2636 Wacnolia ave.,
  Los Afigeles 7,  Galif.
  August 1  1947,

  Director of Military Intellege
  nce,
  War Departmant, Washington 26,
  D.c.

  Dear sir:

  On Sunday  afternoon,  July  the  Sixth,  I  observed  something
  strange  very
  ;  it  is  related —-- at  least  im my  own mind---  with  the
  phenomena  of  the  "Fabulous Blying  Saucers# and I  cannot  report
  this  second phemomena  on
  ,  without  speaking  of  the  first.

 As I  do  not wish to  be  considered the victim of mas
 &@  crack—pot
  s psychology,
  or visionary  »  it  is  rather  hard  for  me  to  mzke  this
 report.  I  am  doing  it  because I  consider it  my  duty.

 A  newspaper  article  spoke  of  the  Bureau  of  Standards
 finger  as  "Having  a
  in the  pie  "  in many experiments  so  not knowing where  to
 write  or who to write  to 4 wrote to the Bureau,
  and Mr. Hugh  L.  Dryd=
 en  has suggested that  you were the one to report
  to.

 I  had been amised  at  accounts  of  the  *  flying  saucers  ".  &veryone
 was  talking  ,  laughing  and  joking  about  themand  I  did  not-believe
 in them  .

  7neé  Hollywood  Tarzana Bus  was  parked  at  the  Tarzana
 and  end  of  the  line
  the  driver was  busy  making  out  his  reports  preparatory to
 the  return  trip./  I
  making
  was  the  only  one  in  the  bus  and  I  sat  in  the
 mate  of  the  side  next  to Ventura so  the  bus  was parked  north  and
 southe

 As  I  looked  to  my  right  ,  a  "gaucer  appeared  out
 ently  of  nowhere tappar—
  out  of  nowhere  and  it  was  followed  by  several  others
 were  of  uniform  ;  they
  size  and  spaced  at regular  intervals  and  it  seemed
 as if they turned a corner
  from the West and  they rolled
 at great speedto the Nor  along
  thward and parXallel  toVentura Boulevard  .
 As  soon  as  I  becameconvinced  that  what  saw  was  not
but  what  an  illusion
  every  one was  talking  about  I  began  to  study  them and
was right  then  it
  that  my eyes  seemed  to  be  drawn  to  this  other  phenoma
in the air between me and the  "Saucers".
What  I  saw  was milky  white  rays  in  the  sunlight  that
cross  seemed  to  cris
  like  the  search  lights  do  at  hight  ;  it  was  nothing
sun  like  the
  shining  on  some  bright  object  for  the  rays  were  not  spaced
they were not so close together  and
  and they cris crossed. However
did seem to converge toward  , they
  a center but they did not meet
In, this  center ---  there .
  a  radious  of  about  eighteen
  seemed  inches  it
from,T sat,  there were spinning objects af some red
  substance
  2

about  the  color  of  the  semi- precious stone  OGornelian: these
fragments  re  sharp  and  irregular and shing.  they were flyin
about  g
  as  if  flying  to  a  Magnet  .  This  was  momentary  and I  looked
to  see  if  the  "Saucers"  were  still  there.
  -I  saw  one  or  two  but
the  same  thing  ‘happened  again  and  I  saw  the  second  phenomena
a  second  .
  for
  By  this  time  the  "Saucers  were  out  of  sight.

All  the  wey  home  I  was  trying  to  find  some  logical  explanation for
the  "Sa  ucers"  but  my  mind  kept  reverting  to  the  second
and  phenomena
  as  I  dwelt  on  it  I  could  not  help  surmising  if  perhaps  these
rays  I  saw  did  not  come  out  of  the  red fragments  that  were  spinning
in  the  vortez.  I  couldnt  help wondering  if  this  substance
shot  had  beeh
  from  the  "Saucers  as  theyturned the  corner  fron  the  west  on  their
way  to  the  “orth/.

AS  our  army  would  not  be  shotin  icadly  rays  over  toward  a  very
croweded highway and as this whole thin
  g seems fantastic to say
the least, I thought I had
  better trust some ones Judgeme
really knows what is going  nt who
  onand so you have  my report on what
* rea  lly  saw,  and  what  I  aa  very  curious  about.

Thanks  to  M&.  Dryden  for  his  courtesy  in  letting  me  know
who  just
  to  relate  this  incident  to,  and  thanks  to  you  for
and  listening
  I  hope  that  it  makes  the  right  kind  of  impression.

  Sincerely  yours,

  M.  Lenore Gorey
  APN/KDS/eb

  OKLAHOMA CITY AIR MATERIEL AREA
  TINKER  FIELD
  OKLAHOMA  CITY,  OKLAHOMA

  IM  REPLY  REFER TO:

  #372h-1  ,  30 July 1947

  MEMORANDUM FOR THE SECURITY OFFICER,  OCAMA

  Sabject:  DAN NELSON,  Attorney-at-Law,  926 Perrine Building
  Oklahoma City, Oklahoma.  :
  Re:  Flying Saucer Mystery Solved.

  On 30 July 1947 DAN NELSON was intervie
  at his
  wed
  office, 926 Perrine
  _ Building, > ay teetee’  Oklahoma, relative to his alleged solving of the
  Flying Saucer

  Subject, whose age is 53, is at present engaged in practici
  ng law and
  is the agent for the Dual Parking Meter Company. Subject advised he is
  married and has two sons, ages seven and ten, residing at 2613 N.W. lth

  the University
  ince 1929 he has practiced general
  law in both Norman and Oklahoma City, Oklahoma.

  Subject stated he notified the War
  19h7, advising them of his discoveries

  Department  as of 29 July 1947,  at which time he released his statement to
  the  Oklahoman," Oklahoma City local newspaper.

  Subject advised the basis for his theory concerning the
  Flying Saucer
  Mystery was obtained from simple experiments which he conducted while driving
  his automobile. NELSON stated he believed that many people had seen lights
  or shining objects cast onto their windshields and side ventilator
  windows
  of their automobile and reflected as a saucer or disc shaped object. He
  stated that the movement of the automobile, Plus the fact
  that the glass was
  not a perfect mirror and passing objects could be seen in relat
  to
  ionthe
  objects gave them an appearance of great speed.

  Subject advised that the vibration of the car gave the objects
  an
  appearance of rotating and that the reflections caused them to appear
  flat
  or saucer shaped.  NELSON stated that any number of objects might be seen
  according to the direction that the car is traveling and the number of bright
  Objects being reflected onto the window.  He further stated that these objects
  might be seen in an ordinary window in a house according to the lighting

bnek #1  pe
conditions, and that the objects might be either
  vertical or horizonal.  The
subject related that any change in speed of the car
  resulted in a change in
speed of the object, and that changes of directio
  n resulted in a change in
the angle of travel of the object.

  NELSON stated he has not talked to any persons that had actuall
  y seen
flying saucers or discs but he believed that these reflections
  plus the
excitement and hysteria caused by other reports has
  been the basis for most
flying saucer reports.  Subject also stated that this same theory could be
true in relation to flying saucers seen from aircraft.

  Attached hereto is a detailed statement by NELSON covering
  his  findings
and explaining his solution to the so-called Flying Saucer
  Mystery.

  KALMAN D. SIMON
  C.I.,  U.S. army
  FLYING SAUCER MYSTERY SOLVED

  July 12,  1947.

  The most impressive reports of the so-called flying

saucers  or discs were those from aviators who claim they

saw disc-shaped objects flying through the air in various
formations at high altitudes and at a high rate of speed.
The first report was from an aviator who  stated that these

so-called flying discs had a somewhat  shiny appearance and

would  fly  in formation and change their position from time

to time.  Most reports  stated  that  they appeared in the  late

afternoon or about dusk.

  Most  all reports were to the effect that  these objects

had the appearance of an inverted disc or saucer, and  some

of them reported that  they appeared to be rotatin: in their

flight.

  The  mystery of the flying saucers or discs may be  sol-

ved  by the  use  of  a  little  applied  science  along  with  a

few simple experiments.

  These  flying discs or  saucers  can be  observed  by any

motorist  traveling along  the  highways  when  the  sun  is

shining  on  most  any afternoon  or evening.  During  the  day-

light  most  of  these  so-called  flying discs  are  reflections

from the  sun  shining  upon  some bright  object  in  or on the

automobile  driven  by the  observer.  For  instance,  if you

were driving in  a north-westerly direction  with  the  sun

shining on the handle of the front or rear door on the left

side  of the  car, you may  notice  a  shiny  object  appear in  the

ventilation wing of the window on the drivers  left,  if  it  is

opened  to  about  a 45°  angle.
  These shiny objects may have wrious forms and there
  may
be more than one, depending on the number of reflections.
They may appear to be in the sky when thé driver
  looks through

the ventilation wing glass.  Their position in the sky depends

upon the angle  at which the object  is reflected in: the  ven-

‘tilation wing and the position of the observer,  They may have
various forma but  very frequently they are of a  saucer shape

or a flat shape when they appear.to be in the sky.  :

  The ventilation wing during day-light is not of course

a perfect mirror, therefore,  it  appears to the driver or ob-

server that he  is actually looking  through the glass into  the

sky.  As he moves along,  the bright objects appear to be

traveling at  a high  rate  of speed  in  comparison  with  the

stationary objects on the  ground,  or the distant horizon,  that

he  sees through the window,  or in comparison with the faintly

silhouetted objects on the landscape which at times are reflected in the window.

  The flying saucer appears to be  traveling in  the  same

general direction as the automobile but  sometimes a little  to

the right which makes it appear that it will eventually cross

the drivers path.  The apparent flight direction of the
saucer is due to  the angle of the ventilation wing glass in

its relation to the direction in which the car is traveling.

The number and position of the  saucers refleéted  in the glass

depend upon the number and  contour of objects reflected there-

in by the  sun.  Bright objects on a car approaching from the

rear may cast  such  reflections on your ventilation  wing  in

the daytime.

  (2)
  If the ventilation wing window were a perfect mirror the
objects causing the reflections would appear therein,as well as
all other objects within range, but the ventilation wing being
a sort of a semi-mirror, does not reflect the object but only
the bright spot, which leaves the impression that the observer
is actually looking through the glass and that the object actually appears to be in the sky, or at times a long distance

away.  These results are best obtained in the late afternoon,
or after sun down.

  The aviators who reported seeing flying discs or saucers,
undoubtedly were seeing the reflection of bright objects in or
on their own plane. They saw them as reflected in their canopy
or wind shield, but failed to recognise them as reflections.
Otherwise they were reflections from other air craft.
  As the aviator traveled along observing the movement of
 the disc in comparison with the mountains, clouds or station-
 ary objects on the earth, made them appear to be traveling at
 a high rate of speed.  The sloping angle of the aviators
 winde-shield and his position in the plane made it appear thet
 the dises were in the sky. The position of the discs also
 depend upon the position of the observer and the angle at which
 they are reflected in the glass.
  Some of the reports stated that where there were more
 than one flying disc, they appeared to be fastened together
 and frequently performed a dipping or rising motion and when
  one would dip, they would all go through the same motion sim-
 ultaneously. The simultaneous movement is due to the reflect-
 dons all coming from the same object. For instance, if they

  (3)
  e,
are reflected from some bright object in or on the car or plan
the up and down motion of the car or plane causes the flying
  motion,
discs to appear to be going through a dipping and rising
  ing,
or, if the reflecting object is stationary and the car mov
the results will be the same.
  The statement that the discs appeared to be rotating as
they sailed through the atmosphere is due to the vibration of
the automobile or plane. Vibrations make them appear to be
rotating at a very high rate of speed. Vibration is what gives
them a flat or disc-like shape also.
  If you wish to see some flying discs, make a drive at about
dusk or at night, open your ventilation wing window at about a
45° angle from the drivers seat and watch the reflections of
the stationary electric lights tht appear on your left, if you
  can
are driving, after you pass them,and see how many discs you
observe flying through the air. If there are not too many lights
to your rear, you may have a perfect formation of beaufiful
  to
 flying discs which may be red, green or silver according
 the color of the electric lights which you have passed. They
 appear most realistic when traveling about forty-five or fifty
 miles per hour.  If you do not get satisfactory results from
 your first experiments, try again. After you have learned
 when and where to look for them, your observations become more
 pleasing and interesting.

  Even the lizhts of an approaching automobile from your
  .
 rear may appear as one flying dise in your ventilation wing
 The reflections of the approaching lights will appear in your
 ventilation wing unless the side of your car protrudes out so
  prevent the light beam from shining on the wing.
  (4)
These  appear best  when  the  approaching  car is  some distance

away,  perhaps a quarter or half a mile.  The  results at night

may  not  be  as  impressive  as those  in  the  late  afternoon  because

at night  your ventilation wing window makes a more perfect

mirror and  the  passing  landscape  is  not  as  pronounced,  therefore,

the reflections therein are more easily detected as reflections.

In  the  late afternoon,  however, you have  a  feelinz  that  you are

actually  looking  through the  glass and  the  reflected objects

appear  more  real.  The  sun  shining  on  a bright  ring on  your fin-

ger with  your hand resting on the  steering wheel  may  cast disc-

like  reflections in your wind  shield.  The form of  the  reflect-

ion  will  depend  upon the  ornamental decorations on your ring.

  The rear door handle on my automobile  reflects nine beau-

tiful,  little,  silver, flying discs in the  bright  sun-light.

These appear in the  lower part of the  ventilation  wing and when

traveling on  a  level highway,  they appear to  be  racing along

with  me  at the  road  side.  These  nine  discs  appear in  a form-

ation  of two rows of  four each,  with the  ninth  one  in the  lead

at the  center of the  formation.  They appear as whirling pro-

pellers  in  a  vertical  position.’  These discs  also  have  stream-

ers which  are due to the  curveture and decorative pattern on

the handle.  While traveling north  in the  early afternoon under

a bright  sun,  these nine discs appeared far below to my left,

racing up the  valley at a terrific  rate.

  You may be able  to  see flying discs  in your own home.

If you will turn on a small electric light  in the hall-way

and then bok through the window at the other end of the hall,

  (5)
 you  may  see  as  many  as  three  flying  discs  from  one  electric

 light bulb,  which may have more or less  of  a bell  shape.  These
 dises many times appear as inverted saucers, and if you will
 change your position slowly you will  see that  they change their

 position  also.  These are  best observed  in the  late afternoon

 or between  sun down and dusk,  when it  appears to  you that  you

 are merely looking  through  the window pane at  the  discs  sus-

 pended in the distance.  As darkness  comes  on,  the  window pane

 becomes a more perfect mirror and your discs
  appear as reflections in a mirror.

  To watch the dises,  through your ventilation wing,  sail
along with  you as you drive through the  country,  becomes very

fascinating,  especially if you use a little  imagination.  It
may absorb your thoughts completely,  therefore,  I  would admonish automobile drivers watching  the  flying discs,  to  be  cautious
and nov run off the road or into  some other car.

  Some of the  reports on flying  saucers,  heretofore not  explained in this article,  such  as those reported seeing bright

flashes in the sky, were no doubt reflected
  sun-light  from
planes.  These light beams chanced to cross the line of vision
of the observer.  They frequently appear very brilliant and

may more or less  blind  the  observer  for  an  instant.  If  the

plane is very high it may not be seen by the
  observer, which
may be due to impaired vision or the  great height at which

the plane is flying.  We very often get these same blinding

flashes from automobile windshields,  Many of the reports
around July 4th.  were incited by various forms of fire works
  ,
Some reports stemmed from pure imagination or hysteria, while

others were deliberate hoaxes.  Any other reports can be ex-

plained if all the surrounding facts are known.

  Most all of the reports and descriptions of the flying

saucers coincide so clearly with the findings herein, that
there could be no doubt but that we have the correct solution.

  The foregoing statement may not be coached in precise

scientific terms, and may not be scientifically exact, however, we believe it is so worded that the average layman can
understand it and that it is sufficiently correct to prove
the proposition.

  Personally, I do not believe that the so-called flying

saucers or the solution thereof, are of any military value,

unless the Government wished to retain this information for

the psychological effect upon any potential enemy nation,

such as Germany did in regard to their so-called secret

weapons during the war.
  a
MEMORANDUM

SUBJECT:  “Flying Saucers"

TO:  Asst Chief of Air Staff-2
  Collection Branch, AAF
  Washington 25, D. C.

  1.  ‘The inclosure is an excerpt from a letter to
Dr. E. Tousey, Micron Waves Section Head, Naval Research Laboratory, from Mr. John F. Cole, pertaining to some unidentified objects
which Mr. Cole reports to have seen some time prior to the firet
reports of "flying saucers" in the New England area.

  2.  Dr. Tousey states that Mr. Cole is a well-known astronomer
and a reliable observer as @ result of his training.

  3. The inclosure is in addition to information contained
in previous letters to your office taken from interviews at the
request of Lt. Col. G. D. Garrett, AAF A-2.

1Anel.  WILLIAM P. MELLEN
 Excerpt fm ltr to  Major, Air Corps
  Dr. Tousey 2  AMC Liaison Officer
  Naval Research Laboratory
  .
  Copy.
Excerpt from letter to Dr. R. Tous
  ey from
Mr. John F.  Cole

  South Brooksville, Me,
  July 28, 1947.

  Having in mind the ridicule which
  has been heaped.on those innocent
or perhaps gullible  individuals  who have  reported disks,  I  would be a little
cautious in interpreting.  But  it  is  safe  to  say truthfully,  that something
unusual attracted my attention,
  and  I  was  in a Perfectly  sober. condition,
barring the mild stimulation,  afforded by cool spring water filtering
North Haven greenstone cracks.
  through
  It  should be easy to determine if the "disk
  s"
were a new type  jet  plane,  or bomber,  or rocket.  The  fact  that  it  was July
3,  about 2:30 P.M. (summer time)  or Greenwich Civil time 1830 might sugge
  st
that they were engaged in some naval
  demonstration from Eastport, Bar Harbo
or Belfast.  r
  The group appeared to be at an G@ltitu
  de of about 50° -- I suffer
from a mild cervical arthritis--but my eyes
  Bre well corrected for astigmatism and hypermetropia, and I doubt if
  my cerebral cortical Lesions are suffic
  iently advanced to affect my balance.
  What first made me 100k up was the unusually loud roar and I was surprised
  not to see a well defined group of plane
quite  s
  near.  Instead  I  had to  look rather  sharply to  see  the bunch-of very
light colored objects,  in a general northerly direction and trave
  lling roughly
in a NW (true) direction.  This was reasonably correct, as I was on Cox's
hill, and looked over towards Backwood's Mount,
  that is the conspicuous flat
tep planated hill at Harborside.  The group could hardly have  covered more
than 14° enguler diameter in the sky, and bunched rather
  closely with no
regular formation.  There might  have been 10,  I  couldn't  say and with 90'  of
arc spread, would easily be within the limit of
  visibility for discreet objects.  As a group they were going so as  to  cover 30°  of  arc,  estimated of
course,  in perhaps 10 or 15 seconds.  If  one  of  them,  sey,  subtended 1/10°,
with a possible wing spread of 100 feet,  it would put it at a distance of
over 10 miles, and quite invisible for a light
  object.  Besides, with 30°
arc of travel at a 10 mi. distance would be
  roughly 5 miles in 15 seconds
or 20 mi. per minute or 1200 mi. per hour!!
  --rather fast for a bomber--hi.
A 50 ft. objecty at 5 miles dist. would be
  about 600 mi. per hr.--aleo faet
going.  The only concrete evidence of form appeared on the
  left tangent of
the group--two dark shaped forms: Ps)  which may have been tail wings.
Doeen't the Douglass bomber have these?  And  since they were in no regular
formation, but seemed among themselves to be moving irregu
  larly like a swarm
of bees, why shouldn't all of them have shown wings?
  The loud roar suggests
they may have been much closer, and rather small.
  The  sky background was
hazy blue, and the sun behind me.  One plane towing a lot of balloons, I
believe, would have been easily recognized.  Havy any meteorites been re-
Ported?  At that time of day,  has there been  any abrupt  change of radio field
strength?  or ionization?
  OFFICE OF THE AIR INSPECTOR
  25 JULY  1947

MEMORANDUM TO:  AC/AS-2, Counter Intelligence Branch

  1.  Information contained herein and opinions  expressed are  based
upon conversation with  and  request  by Mr.  Butler of your  office.  All
pertain to certain phenonema  connected with recent widespread talk of
“flying saucers".

  2.  Approximately  three weeks  ago,  on or about  7 July 1947,  I
prepared to go to bed around 2230 or  2300 EDT.  I was  living at 2807
North Glebe  Road,  Arlington,  Virginia,  with my wife.  Illustration No.  1
shows the  general  layout of  the  room we occupied at  that time.  See
Tllustretion No.  1.
  3.  I had just turned off the light by my bedside, but sat down
on the side of the bed to listed to the end of a radio program before *
reclining.  In the meantime, my wife and I were having some conversation about the selection of certain furniture for a home we had just
purch  d. At the time of these events, as I sat facing the windows,
@ light appeared at the right-hand edge of the extreme end window and
moved rapidly along to disappear below the trees or horizon, or to be
extinguished in some fashion at some place in a general southerly
direction,  This is illustrated on the following page by a very tentative sketch.  See Illustration No. 2.  J
  4.  At  the time,  since my  attention was divided and absorbed among
the  subjects mentioned,  my reaction was simply that  "a light passed by,”
and  I gave no further thought to the matter until some moments  later,
when the  thought  came to me  that
  I had never seen such an object before,
and thet although the first explanation would have been that a meteor had
fallen ¢oward earth in that direction, it did not have the appearance of
any meteor or “shooting star"  I had ever seen,  Thinking of the thenprevalent talk of flying disks,  I reflected that probably some such
thing as  I had just seen was the source of a large amount of newspaper
and  radio publicity on  the  subject.  The  next morning  I  jestingly
announced  in the office  that  I  saw a flying saucer the  night before and
thought  that  it was  enroute  to Alexandria,where  some  of our  officers
live.  I then went on to say that  I supposed it was a shooting ster,
but that  it  did
  look somewhat peculiar,  After we had discussed the
general topic for some time, I dropped the subject, not wishing to add
to the supposed rumors, which I envisioned as a source of serious panic
over the country.

  5.  A description of the  light,  or object is almost impossible,
since  observation  of  it was  so  limited.  As  shown in  Illustration No.  2
the  object  appeared to  p  in  closest  proximity to me at  the time  it
came into view.  All of my mental calculations were based upon some
impression or conseption of its distance at the closest
  point, (AC).
I had no way of judging this, except in the form of
  very crude depthperception.  If this by any chance were correct, ard instead of e distant meteor  some  object  had passed  near-by,  I would  assume  for purposes
of description that the  distance AC on the  sketch was  some three quarters
of a mile,  One factor which I could judge quite reliably was the angular
elevation,  This must have been approximately 3 or 4 degrees; at any
rate,  the  light  was  intermittently behind  the  tallest  trees  forward  of
my position  as  it  passed,  and  these  trees  are  of a normal  height,  perhaps
sixty  or eighty feet at a distence! several blocks.  Based upon a mild
  sumption as to  distance,  and  a reasonable assumption as to  anguler
elevation, the object would be at a low altitude,  considerably bolow
500  feet,  and of @ size  approximating a small  airplane,  say 30  feet
across,  The shape may have been round, oval, discal, or irregul
  ar; at
the speed with which it travelled, I could only perceive it
  as a “blob.”
I do not consider the distance mentioned to be less
  than 3/4 mile,
because had it been, I feel sure that, late
  in the evening and with all
my windows  open,  I would have  heard  some  sound,  which  I  definitely did
not  in this  ca  It  might  be well  to  point out here  the  relative
similarity in size, altitude and airspeed of p firefly
  at a distance of
30 feet, an airplane at about 3f mile, and a meteor
  at several hundred
miles.  Most of us are familiar with this illusion.
  6.  Although I could not accurately judge the time, I seem to
recall the object or light was visible for a couple of seconds,
Taking this figure literally and applying it to the sketch, No. 2,
one could roughly compute the speed of the object at 1550 mph; however,
I did not se:  that it was moving with such great speed as this.  It
rather appeared to move with the speed of a jet-powered airplane,  It
did not deviate from a straight course while I observed it, and did not
perceptibly lose altitude.

  7  In color, the subject had the appearance of a reflected white
light, a cool, bright white light with no red in it, like the moon on a
clear night. There was no train visible to me, in the form of fire,
smoke, or sparks. The weather at the assumed time and date was checked
through records of the Bolling Field weather office, and consisted of
scattered to broken clouds with visibilities of 10 - 12 miles.  ‘he cloud
condition is further indication that the object was not nec
meteor, since it might have been impossible to see a meteor.
personally remember the weather condition, except that I am sure it was
not raining.

  8.  At the time of this occurrence, I was not inclined to think of
it seriously enough to wake my wife and describe it to her, nor by any
reasoning to make official report.  As time passed, I thought considerably
about the fleeting glimpse I had of whatever I saw, and am still somewhat
confused, but feel that it was some natural phenomenon which occurs but
rarely,  I have flown approximately 2500 hours during the past=seven
years and being  generally familiar with aspects of aviation can emphatically state that (a)“it was no weather balloon, (b) it was not the flash of
@ beacon on the cloud-base, (c) it could hardly have beon an airplane on
fire, since it would have at least crashed in this general area, (d) it
was not entirely a result of imagination, and (e) it was not spending
much time in one place.

  yr
  “JAMES 0. COBB
  Lt Colonel, Air Corps
  AEMY LIAISON OFFICE
  NAVY DEPARTMENT

  NAVAL RESEARCH LABORATORY
  WASHINGTON 20, D.C.

  28 July 1947

  Asst Chief of Air Staff-2
  Collection Branch, AAF
  Washington 25,  D.  C.

  Supplemental to that contained in a letter to your office,
dated 18 July 1947,  re interview with Mr. C.  H.  Zohn who purports
to have seen an unidentified flying object,  the following additional
information was obtained on 21 July from C. C. Rockwood, who was mentioned
in that letter as having also  seen the object.

  C. C. Rockwood reports the object to have been either a silvery
sphere or disc, which he would have taken to be a meteorological balloon
except for the fact that it was travelling at a much higher velocity
than the automobile and approximately in the  same direction.  The automobile was moving about 60 mph.  There was little,  if any,  surface wind.

  When first seen at an elevation of about 45° it appeared about of
the same size as the sun. He could hear nothing above the noise of the
car. 2% saw no smoke or contrails.

  Its motion was apparently all horizontal.  Its aspect did not change
so faf“as could be observed during the time of observation.  He thought
it disappeared by simply becoming too small to see.

  Oth I Mull
  WILLIAM P. MELLEN
  Major, Air Corps
  AMC Liaison Officer
  This is en unparaphr  (cypher) Wessage. Text must be perephresed
  code ased
  if essen  tial it in another system
  to retransmit  or to comunicate ite con=
  tents to persons outeide British or U.S. Government Services. One-time
a>  pad ressages are excepted from this rule.  ®

  isoe/l :
  JOINT COMPUNICATIONS OFFICE  9421

  —geepEe  ‘  IN MESS:GE  7.0.0: 080800 Aug. 1947
  REC'D:  1200 EDT 9th Aug.

  FROM:  A.M, LONDON

  FAFDEL

  AIX 6328  tug. 8th 1947

  Your AIX 14 duly 29th.

  During normal night flying practice at 2230 hours on 16th

  January, 1947, one  of our Mosquitos was vectored @ to an unidentified

  aircraft at 22,000 feet. A long chase ensued commencing over the North
  Sea about 50 miles from the Dutch coast end ending at 2300 hours over
  Norfolk.  Two brief AI cont-cts were mde but faded quickly. The un-

  identified aireraft appeared to take efficient controlled evasive action.

  2.  No explanation of this  incident has been forthcoming nor

  has it been repeated.

  AM

  C,1.0, (Action)3
  30  July 1947

  For purposes of analysis by AFBIR-CO, eighteen reported sightings

of "Flying Discs" were selected for breakdown into detailed particulars. Each

report was assigned a number and each nunber appears in the left-hand colum

of the data on the following pages.

  ne report, Number 7, has not yet been received and therefore no

information is included other than Date, Name of Observer, and Location. The

Fourth Air Force is attempting to secure a statement from this observer.

  Four reports, Numbers 2,  4, 17, and 18, have not been analyzed.

  The subject headings on which the breakdown has been made are:

  Date
  Hour (Local standard Time)
  Location
  Observer's Name
  Observer's Occupation
  Observed from Ground or Air
  Number of Objects Sighted
  Altitude
  Direction of Flight
  Speed
  Distance Covered
  Length of Time in sight
  Deviation from Straight Flight
  Color
  Size
  Shape
  Sound
  Trail
  Weather
  Manner of Disappearance
  Remarks
  Location

  1
  Manitou springs, Colorado
  2
  Oklahoma City, Oklahoma
  3  Greenfield, Massachusetts
  4
  Mt. Rainier, Washington
  2  Maxwell  Field,  Alabama
  6  Nera white Sands, lew Mexico
  7  Bakersfield, California
  8
  Exvnett,  Idaho
  9  Clay Center, Kansas
10
  Fairfield-Suisun, California
lu
  Koshkonong,  wisconsin
l2
  East  Troy, Wisconsin
13
  Mt.  Baldy, California
wu
  Grand Falls, Newfoundland
15
  Harmon Field, Newfoundland
16  Elmendorf Field, Alaska
 '7
 ’ 6

  *Local  standard  Time
  ®  %

  Observer's Name  Occupation

  D. A. Houser  Railroad Employee
  F. J. Smith  "  "

  L. D.  Jamison  "  "

  Byron Savage  Businessman-Pilot
  E. L. DeRose  *lot stated
  Kenneth Arnold  Business-man Pilot
  Wilson H. Kayko  Captain,  AAF
  John H.  Cantrell  ”  ”

  Redman  ”  "

  Theodore Dewey  lst Lieut., AAF
  C. H. Zohn  Employee, NkL
  J. R.  Kauke  "  "

  C. C. Rockwood
  Nancy Rockwood  Wife of C.C. Rockwood
 7  Richard Rankin  Civilian Pilot
 8  z.  J. Smith  United  Air Lines Pilot
  Ralph stevens  =  .  "  Co-Pilot
 7  A.  Be.  Browning  Major, AAF
10  Jas.  H.  Burniston  Captain, AaF
n  Not Stated  CaP Instructor
  "  "
  CAP  Student
l  Not  Stated  CAP  Pilot
  "  "
  CAP Passenger
13  Alvin E. Moorman  1st  Lieut.,  ACCNG
uy  Iric Kearsey  Constable, Newfoundland
  Constabulary
  Mr. Mehrman  TWA Representative
  Mr. Woodruff  PAA  1"

RG  Grahn  Major, AAF
  and several other officers
  a

  *From letter received, observer
  is obviously well educated.
  Deviation from
  Straight Flight  Color  size

Climbed,  dove, hovered overhead, re-  silver  Apparently small
sumed original  course

None reported  silver, very  Snall
  bright

Zig zag course "much like a water-  Brilliance  Kot  stated
bug"  slightly great-
  er  than  a star
None reported  some solar spec-  Not stated
  ular reflection

None  reported  Almost dusk;  Impossible to
  could not dis-  determine
  tinguish
None reported  Very bright  and  30-50'  in diameter
  silvery colored
None reported  Reflection from  Comparable to a
  sun  C-54 at 10,000'
Descended edgewise, stopped at 4,000!  Not stated  Not stated
and assumed horizontal position.  Proceeded in horizontal flight for 15
seconds,  stopped again,  then disappeared
None reported  Not  stated  Not stated
None  reported  Of light-reflec-  Apparent depth of
  ting nature  a P=51
None reported  Phosphorous  Not stated
  color
None reported  silvery  Same  span  as  a
  C-54 at 10,000!
Followed contours of mountains five  Resembled a  Approx.  10'  in
miles away from observers  grayish balloon  diameter
  Shape  Weather

No definite shape could be  CAVU
determined

Irregular; round, Dis not  Not stated
appear particularly discshaped

None stated;  seemed like  None  Clear moonlight
a bright light
No details other than that  Possible vapor  CAVU
shape was uniform with no  trails
protuberances

None definite,  but seemed  None  CAvU
flat on base with the top
slightly rough in contour
Round, disc-shaped  None  CAVvU
No shape could be disting-  None  Sunny
uished
Not stated, but report re-  None  CAVU
fers to "saucer"  several
times
Same as Report No. 1  None  CavU
Flat object, of light-re-  None  Not stated
flecting nature which appeared to be without vertical
fin or any visible wings
Egg-shaped,  or like barrel  None  CAVU
head
Circular in shape, like  Bluish black  Clear with scatwagon wheel  trail approx.  tered cumlus
  15  mi.  long  at 8 to 10,000!
Resembled balloon  None  Not stated
  @
 Thi  lage contains all the
information on the document

  Manner of
  D.  arance  Remarks

  Climbed very fast and out of sight  No definite shape could be determi
  and even with the aid of 4, to 6 pe
  er binoculars object could not be
  brought into focus

  Obscured by a cloud bank  From letter this observer wrote, i
  is obvious he is a well-educated
  person. Seeks no publicity.

  Lost in brilliancy of the moon  Observers (2 rated, 2 air intell.)
  phoned Field Ops to ascertain no
  scheduled experimental a/c were in
  vicinity. sky chart attached to re
  Cannot explain, except that reflec-  Observer is Admin. Asst. in the hoc
  tion angle may have changed abruptly  et Sonde sect. of NkL. Two other
  "scientists", and wife of one, wee
  in party and made same observation

  Don't know whether they put on a tre—  Observers were Pitot, Co-Pilot, of
  menduous burst of speed, or disinteg-  scheduled UAL DC=3. Stewardess als:
  rated. However, they did disappear into  saw objects.  Suggest reading of ve.
  sunset  detailed statements.
  Unexplained  When first sighting object near ho
  izon, observer looked at chart in
  his lap to check position. ‘hen he
  looked out window again, object wa:
  off his left wing at 11 o'clock
  Disappeared at an angle of about 30°  Rolled from side to side 3 times i
  above the earth's surface  its path across the sky. sun refle
  ed from top side, but never from u
  erside, even when turning
  Unexplained  None
  Unexplained  None
  Pilot (at 300MPH) attempted to keep  Ovserver contacted bases in area w
  object  in sight,  but  unable  to  do so  reported no a/e in air at time
  Unexplained  First 4 discs flying line-a-trail
  Unexplained  Seemed to cut clouds open es it
  passed thru. Trail was like bean
  seen after a high-powered landing
  l4cht is switched off.
  Object was observed paralleling th
  course of a C-4,7 then landing.
  Colorado

SUMMARY  OF  INFORVATION

  The  following information was  related  to  Counter  Intelligence  Corps
Personnel  at Headquarters  Fifteenth  Air  201  8s,  Colorado on
27 June  1947  oy  Mr  D. A.  ha  North  Chesnu  Colorado  Springs
Colorado,  Mr. F. J.  nitn,  24  Manitou  Sprin  Colorado  and  Mr. L.
D. Jamison, 2415 test  Sprin.s, Colorado.  All  three of the
men are empolyees of the  Pix  ilvry, Manitou Springs,  Colorado.

  "On or  about  19  aay  1947  during  t  z  a
ber  of a  train  crew called  attention  sil  obje  in  ti  ky  a;  proac
from tie  North  East.  It  appeared  to  Le  travellin,  at  a  great  speed.  All
three  men  stated  that  the  altitude  of  the  object  was  very  difficult  to  determine because of its apparent smallness.  They furtner stated  that  because  of
this it was difficult to view the object as being  large and
altitude  or  small  and  being  at  a  relatively  low  altitude.  They
that  it appeared to  be higher  than  the  top  of  Manitou Mountain  which  is  over
1000 feet higher than the shops which are situated at its base.  No definace
B..ape of the object could be determined and even with tie aid of binoculars it
still could not be brought into focus.  The vinoculers used were of about 4 to
6 power.  The men stated that they were cer ain that  the  cbject  did not have
any of tne physical characteristics of modern  conventional  aircraft.

  The day was discribed as  veing clear and sunny  witn not a  cloud  in the
sky andano ground wind.

  On reaching tne area just North of kanitou Moutain the object remained
in tne  immediate area for several minutes during which time it was seen to
execute manuvers such as climbi:.g, divin;  and  reversal  of direction of  flicht.
This happened every  few seconds.  distance and location between  views
prompted two of  the men  to  think  that  there,were more of  he unidentified
objects  in the sky.  At times the object seemed to  hoveer in  tne  air and then
start on another path  of fliht.  ‘hen  last  seen  tre  silver  object was  climoin;  very fast  towards the West almost  directly  into  the wind.

Previous  distribution:
  Evalutation

  None
  source  of  information

DISTHIBUTION:
  E  fe)

Hq SAC  3 copies
HQOCAMA FORM NO. 8-806  ®  @

  OKLAHOMA CITY AIR MATERIEL AREA
  TINKER  FIELD

  OKLAHOMA  CITY.  OKLAHOMA

  IN REPLY REFER Tor  OCAPN/KDS:cp

  24 July 1947

  R,  OCAMA,

  B  h  SAVAGS, Field Engineer,  dio Corporation of
  America, Dallas, Texas. (Residence: 416N. W. 29th Street,
  Oklahoma City, Oklahoma.)

  RE:  Flying  Disc.

  On 23 July 1947, BYRON  5. SAVAGS was interviewed at his residence,
  416 N. W. 29th Street, Oklahoma City, Oklahoma, relating to his alleged
  viewing of a flying disc over the vicinity of Oklahoma City, Oklahoma.

  Subject, whose age is 38, advised he is married a } aas one child,
  and is presently the holder of a Private Pilot's License, No. 39101,
  (Single cngine, Land). Subject averred he has extensively studied electron-
  ics, sound engineering and aeronautics, and his present occupation, which is
  Field Engineer for Radio Corporation of America, offices of which are
  located in Lallas, Texas, is that of installing theater sound equipment.
  SAVAGE  stated that between the days 17 May to 21 May 1947, just after dusk,
  he observed an object which he believed to be a small aircraft in the south.
  AVAGE advised that the sun had just gone down and the moon had not arisen
  on the horizon.  SAVAGS related that he and his wife had just departed
  their residence and had started to enter their car in the driveway at
  416 N. W. 29th Street, Oklahoma City. He judged the time to be between
  8:30 p.sm. and 9:00 p.m., and the lights from the city of Oklahoma City
  appeared to be shining on this object when he first saw it. He judged the
  object to be about 160° in the south when he first saw it, and as it moved
  toward him he remarked to his wife that "a big white plane was coming over."

  SAVAGE stated that when this object was at a 45° angle from him, he
  realized it was not a conventional type aircraft, and it appeared elliptical
  at first and as it moved closer it appeared perfectly round and was flat.
  SAVAGE advised the object, which appeared to him as a disc, had no appearance
  of being spherical and had a ratio of diameter to the thickness of approxi-
  mately 10 to 1, appearing thicker in the center, but this could not be
  positively ascertained. SAVAGE judged the object to be at an altitude of
  between 10,000 and 16,000 feet, and it left no trailing effects. SAVAGE
  related that it appeared to be in bulk as big as the bulk of six B-29s at
  an altitude of approximately the same height. SAVAGE advised that the object
  was in his vision approximately 15 to 20 seconds and travelled at a speed
  which he judged to be approximately three times that of jet-propelled aircraft.
Memo to the Security Officer, OCAMA, Tinker Field, dtd 7/2h/h7, File
372h-1.

  SAVAGE stated that there were no protrusions on this object and as it
went by he listened for a sound of noise, and at one time thought he distinguished a swishing sound like the rushing of air.  This swishing sound
occurred a  few seconds after this object had passed him.  SAVAGE averred
this sound was not very loud and did not last very long, and it is very
possible that the sound could have been his imagination or expectation, as
he was not sure of the sound.  SAVAGE related that he called his wife to
see this object but it had disappeared before she could focus her eyes on
it.  Subject statedTMthat the object appeared to diminish in size and
speed as it moved away, and it was moving in a direction of 350° to the
north.  Subject further stated that the object appeared to be frosty white
in color at all  times.

  SAVAGE advised that he has held a pilot's certificate since 1934 and
has been flying since 1929.  He advised that he would be glad to answer any
further inquiries and will cooperate in every way possible.  SAVAGE stated
he was sure this object was not a meteor and in his opinion it must be
radically built and powered, probably atomic.
  151 Meridian Street
  Greenfield, Massachusetts
  duly 10, 1947

 Comsanding Officer
 Westover Field
 Chicopee, Massachusetts

 Dear Sirs

  After having read several accounts of eye-witnesses who claim they
 had seen the so-called "flying discos", it brought to mind a strange exper-
 fence I had some two weeks ago. The reason I write to you fs that radio and
 newspaper reporte state that the air forces have been alerted to investigate
 these mysterious objects. Assuming that you are interested, I am making the
 following report in the belief that it might possibly be of help to you.  I
 do not desire to have any kind of publicity whatsoever in this connection.

  About 11:30 AM, Sunday, June 22nd, I was working outdoors on a step-
  ladder, looking up, and suddenly there appeared across my line of vision a
  speeding, brilliant, small, round-shaped, silvery-white object at an altitude
  I would judge to be about 1,000 ft. or  more.  It wns moving very fast in a
 straight, northwesterly direction -- I would say as fast or possibly faster
 than a speeding plane.  It was so unusual and strange a sight that it arrest-
 ed my  attention for about 8 or 10 seconds until it was obscured by a cloud-
 bank.

  Maturally my curiosity was considerably aroused and I tried to think
 what this object might have been.  I doubted very much that it could have been
 a weather baloon because it was not at all like any weather baloons I had seen
 before. The object I saw, although small, reflected the sunlight very stronge
  ly as though it were of polished alwtinum or silver, and I can assure you was
  very real.  It appeared to have an irregular round shape and while it could
  have been disc-shaped, it did not particularly impress me as suche

  I have attempted to give you this information as accurately and
  clearly as I kmow how, free from any imagination or exaggeration.  Further-
  more, my experience took place before I had any inkling that "flying discs"
 were reported seen.

  This information is being passed on to you for whatever it may be
  worth, purely and simply in the interests of national security, and once.
  more request that you do not publicize my name.

  Sinceroly yours,
  A CERTIFIED TRUE COPY:
  /e/ Bdward L. DeRose

Chee Kid  FR 32  Edward Le DeRose
  ARCHIE F. ROY
  Captain, Air Corps
  Co.
  @8@

  HEADQUARTERS FOURTH AIR PORCE
  Office of the Assistant  Chief of Staff,  A-2
  Intelligence
  Hamilton Pield, California

4AFDA  17 July 1947
333.5 ID

SUBJECTs  Investigation of “Flying  Discos"

TO:  Commanding Generel, Army Air Poroes,  Washington 25, De Ce
  ATTENTION:  AC of AS=2

  1.  Attached statements and MOICs forwarded to your office per
request TWX from Headquarters Air Defense Command, Mitchel Field, N. oo
dated 10 July 1947.

  2.  This headquarters  is  unable to locate Richard Rankin,  however,
as  soon as  he  is  located,  statement  and  MOIC will be  forwarded  direct  to
your office.

  Se  Information copies  furnished  Headquerters Air  Defense Command.

  DONALD L. SPRINGER
4 Inels:  Lt. Colonel, asc
  1. MOIC 16 Jul/Brown  (cup  AC of S, A-2
  2. MOIC 16 Jul/Brown  (ax
  3. MOIC 16 Jul/3rown
 4, M0IC 16 Jul/Brown

Info
  eo to ADC
  Incident
  Ar 1208 I
  16 July 19h7

MEMORANDUM  FOR  THE OFFICER  IN CHARGES

  1.  vn 12 July 1947, a call was made at the newspaper office of
the  "Idaho Daily Statesman", Soise, [dato.  The aviation editor of the
paper, ur. David N. Johnson,  was interviewed in regard to how wel] he
knew Mr, Kenneth Arnold of  ‘oise, Idaho, and as to the credibility of
@y statemumt made by Mr. Arnold.  The purpose of this interview was an
attempt to verify statements made by Mr. Kenneth Arnold on 26 June 191.7,
to various national  news services to the effect that he,  ir. Amold,
had seen 9 objects flying in the air above the Cascade ‘ountain Range
of washington,  These objects were subsequently referred to as flying
saucers or flying disks and will here-in-after be referred to as such
in this report.  Mr. Johnson stated that he had knom Mr. Arnold for
quite  a period of time,  having had relations  with  Mr. Arnold  on  various
eccasions,  due  to the  fact that  both he,  Mr. Johnson,  and Mr. Arnold
  private fliers and  frequently got together to talk shop.  Mr. Johnson
stated  that as  far as he was  concerned anything Mr. Arnold said cculd be
taken  very seriously and that he,  Mr. Johnson, actually believed that  Mr.
Arnold  had seen the  aforemntioned flying disks.  Mr. Johnson stated that
after Mr. Arnold reported having seen the flying disks, that the editor
of the paper had assigned him, Wr. Johnson, the assignment of taking the
airplane belonging to  the newspaper and exhausting all efforts to prove
or disprove the probability of flying disks having been seen in the
northwest area.  The results of this assignment to Mr. Johnson and what
he subsequently saw is put forth in a sworn statement  signed by Mr. Johnson
attached to this report as ixhibit 5.

AGENT'S NOTES:  Mr. Johnson is a man  of approximately 33 to 35 years of
age.  From all appearances he is a very reserved type  of person.  Mr.
Johnson has logged 2800 hours of flying time in various types of airplanes
up to and  including multi-engine aircraft,  During part of  the war years,
Mr. Johnson was the  first pilot  of a B-29 type aircraft being  assigned to
the Twentieth USAAF and stationed on Tinian Island, in the Pacific.  It
is the personal opinion of the interviewer that “tr. Johnson actually saw
what he states that he saw in the attached report.  It is also the opinion
of the interviewer that Mr. Johnson would have much more to lose than gain
and would have to be very strongly convinced that he actually saw something
before he would report such an incident gnd open himself for the ridicule
that would accompany such a report,

1 Inels  Exhibit "3"

FRANK M.  FROWN, S/A, CIC Sth AP
COPY.

  Statement  of  David  N.  Johnson
  at  Boise,  Idaho,  July  12,  1947

  To  Whom It  May  Concern:

  On  the  sixth  day  received  from  James  L.  Brov

  generel  manager  of  th  atesina  papers,  incorporated  in  Idaho  as

  Statesman Printing  company,  an  assignment which was  in  substence:

  "Conduct  an eerial  seerch  west  states  ir

  see  and  photorraph  a  flying  atrol  for  so

  as  you  deliev  ea  sone

  In  accordance

  hour,  mission

  on  the  seventh

  covered  an  ar

  territory

  first  reported  seein

  On  the  eighth  day

  squadron,  Idaho  Nationel

  »  into  northyesterr

  to  Boise  by wey  of  ‘alla  Walle,

  search  also  was  negative.

  national

  west  and

  tains,  and  back  in  the

  to  the  north  of

  Horseshoe  Bend  are
between  Boise  and  the  village  of

  During  this  search,  which  lestec

hours,  I  flew  under  and  around:  rapidl

area  known as  Camas  Prairi

ville

flyin  mean

averare  )  fo  v  e  eerth  in  this  area,  not  r  ;  errors

  Gowen

  suddenly

  wa
I  could not  see  the  object because  of minutenes:  f’  scor  in ty  iced

optical  view finder with which  the  camere,  en  f.1.9  Eastman,  was  equipped.

  Taking  the  camera  away and  once  arain  centerin  ly  gaze  on

I  observed  it to  roll  so  thet  its edee was  presente  m  st  this  time

flashed  once  in the  sunlirht.

then  performed a  maneuver which  looked  ae:

@  barrel  roll,  which  instead  of

  O-derre

  This  entire  verformance  was

previously forming

relatively, as i}

I  can  not  an  ai

tance  from me,  its  sneed was  creat,  taking  into  consideration

speed  is  reduced to  the  viewer  if an  ob;  is  a  very  creat  distance  .
  wnt
  AaWe
  “

  l  forgot  to  look at  my  clock  to  determine  the  exa  the

object.  The CAA's loc of radio contacts  shows my first contact  to  have been

made af12:17 hours.  muta  few se  ls  elapsed between the  time  first

  the  time  I  called  the  CAA's  station.

  I subsequently related over the  radio a  description of  what  I  saw, and

communicator Albertson may  remember  it.  he  control  tower may  have a  record-

ing of the conversation.  I  have not checked to determine  thet.

  the purpose of my relating  «  she  air what I saw was to eneble rapid

transmission of the revort to the newspaper, for at that time I was on

assicnment and my enerzies thenceforth were devoted to (1) transmitting  the

information and (2) conducting a further search, which
  bee
  did  after  landing

for fuel end to make some telenhone cells.
  saw

  black

  had

  or  20,000  feet

  these

  round)  while  I

  seen  14:00  hour  j  erf  erratic  manner,

  +  obdserved.

  above

  have  a

from  primary  trainers

20wers  of  observation
  .  MATION
  [ Eerus

 It  does  not  make my  eyesight any  sharper except again  as to the  incidental

 demands  upon the  eyes  of a pilot.

  At  the time of-  the  experience  related above,  I had flow fourteen

 and/one-half  hours on an assignment  to  find a  dise and  if  possible,  to

 photograph  it.  In  all  frankness,  I  was  tired.  I  may  have  been  suffering,

 although slightly,  from want of  oxygen.

  Prior  to  sizhting-the  object,  I  hed  concluded  there was no point  in

 pressing the  search,  that  I  probably would  never  see  the  diso-like  objects

 referred  to  :  by  E  in  Snith  of  United  Air  Lines.

  day  and  the  two  preceding

  nold)  I  had literally

  would
  not  fall

  mment  given  m

  aggestion  or

 ee
“ning  te  move
  ae  fixed object begin-
  ee

  ote  east
  s  a  a
  eyes will  play
tricks the

particularly  during  ni
  ¥

241 Battery Street, San Francisco’, showed no trace of any object.  Stohr

says thet 4f it was more than a mile distant fron ne at the size I described,
the object would not have registered sufficiently on the film to be shown.

He said it probébly was too far away to be apparent oven through great en=
largement of the negative, and enlergement in thet case is Limited because
of the size of the film and  the fact I did not have any telescopic equipment

on the lens.  The exposure was f.16, stop set at infinity, at a speed of 16

frames  per  second,

  I  have-worried over this matter a  great  deal since  seeingiit.  I  “took

myself aside" and said, “come now, Johnson, don't be stupideTM  But I camnot-

bring myself to the point of thinking I did gg see anything. The impression
of  the  moment  was  too  vivid,  too  realistic,  and  I  knew in  the  air  when  I  saw

that partial  slow  roll  or barrel  roll,  that  I was  not  e  vietim of  illusion.

  I trust ‘this matter will be of help to those inveati calling the flying
disc  phenomena which have  been  reported.

  4 chart  is attached depicting  the  movements  of the object as  I saw it.

  This  statement  is made voluntarily and freely, in response to  the

request of lr. Browmm and  Captein  Davidson, who  called  on me  this morning.

  /sf/  veavid Ne Johnson

Subscribed end  sworn  to  before  me,  a-notary  public,

gay of July  ,  1

  eherty
  ee

  'y  publie  for
  county  Idaho.  My
  commission  expires
  Kenneth  » Bex 367, Boise, Idaho,
  report  « Ar that
  no  he saw
  ld  9
  Range of Washington
  vol  to give the interviewer
  be ha  the above mentioned
  seen on  date,
  is at tached te this report as Exhibit A,

  AGENT'S NOTES:  Fy  5q  3  i  5  32 years of age, being married and
  Yo father of tw children,  Re fc well thought of in the comsunity
  in
  ‘amily aan and from all appearances
  arnold has recently purchased a
  purc  a $5,000
  hase  airplanedin

dite

  St
  nein
  FRANK M. Brown, 8/4, or uth
  AR | Dey
{0%
| Wlmahe entbae eae

  viru. mom, 2/1; 010 Ab  ar
  MA
_—_«

 COPY.  SOME LIFE DATA ON KENNETH ARNOLD
  I was born March @, 1915 in Subeke, Minnesota. My father's name was
  Edward Erb Arnold; my mother's matin name was Bertha E. Bardene I was 4
  resident of Minnesota until I wes six yeers old when my family moved to

  Scobey, Montana, where they homesteaded.  My grandfather, Roland C, Arnold

  also homesteaded in Scobey, Vontana, and became quite prominent in political

  circles along with S5urton K. Wheeler, the famous Montena senators
  I went to grade school and high school at Minot, North Dakota.  I

  entered scouting at twelve yoars of age end achieved the rank of Eagle scout

  before  I was  fourteen.  My former scout  executive was  ii. H. Prescott, now a

  regional commissioner for t.  oy Scouts in Kanses  City, Kansas.

  As a boy,  I was interested in athletics and was selected es an all-

  state ond in 1932 and 1933 in the state of llorth Dakota.  I entered the

  U. 8S. Olympic trials  in fancy diving  in 193  I was a  Rod Cross Life Seving

  Exeminer during th  P  1952  "35 and  '34.  I taught  swimming  and diving

  at  scout  camps and  the municipal  pool  in  -‘inot,  lhorth Yakote.  I  went

  University of  Minnesota,  where  1 did fancy  diving under  Neils  Thorpe,

  and also played  football under  Bernie  Jierman,  but upon  entering college  I

  was unable to continue  my football  career  because  of an  injured knee.  My

  high school football coach  was Glenn L.  Jarrett, who  is now the  head  football

  ' the University  of  North Vakota.  I  had  little or no finances,  and

  my ambition in furthering my education in college wa  rough my athletics.

  As a boy in  Winot, North  Lekota, I did a  good deel  of  do;  sled  racing, placed

  first with my dog  in  1950 in the  Lions  Club  Dog  Derby.

  In  193  ont  to  work  for  Red  Comet,  Ince  of  Littleton,  Coloredo,  a

  manufacturer  automatic  fire fighting apparatus.  In 1939  I was  made

  district manager  fo  mo  ert  of the western  states,  ar  1940 I

  EXHISIT  "A"
  PNR  RET  AT

  DIT  tA @

established my own  fire control  supply known as the  Great  Western  Fire

Control Supply.  1  have been workine  as an  independent  fire  control

engineer  since, and I  handle,  distribute,  sell  and  install ell  t

f@utomatic and manual  fire  fighting  eq  mt  in  the  rural  areas  over

five western babes
  My  flying experience  started  as a  boy  in  Minot,  liorth  Dakota,  where

I took my first flying  lesson from Earl  T.  Vance,  who  was  originally  fron

Great  Fells,  Montana.  Due  to the  hich  cost  at  “that  time,  I  was  unable  +o

continue  my flying and did not  fly of any  creat  consequence  until  1  °

I was given my pilot  certificate by Ed Leach,  a  senior  CAA inspector of

Portland,  Oregon,  and for  the  lest  three  years have  owned  my ow airplane

covering my entire  territory  with  same and  flying  from forty  to  one  hundred

hours  per month since.  Due to  the  fact  that  I  use  an airplane  entirely  in

my work,  in January of  this  year  I  purchased  a  new  Calleir  airplane,  which

is  an airplane  designed for  high altitude  take-offs  and  short  rough  field  use.

  In the  type of flying  I  do,  it  tekes  a  great  deal  of practice  and

judgment to be able  to  lend  in most  any  cow pasture  and  get  out without

Anjuri-3 your airplane;  the  runways are very  limited  and  the  altitude  is

very high tn some of the fields and places I have to go in my work. To
date,  I have  landed in 823  cow pastures in mountain méadows,  and in over

@ thousand hours a flat tire has been ny createst mishap.
  The  following  story  of  what  I  observed  over  the  Cascade mountains,

 as  impossible  as  it  may  seem,  is  positively  true.  I  never  asked  nor  wanted

 any  notoriety  for  just  accidently  being  in  the  right  spot  at  the  right  time

 to  observe  what  I  did.  I  reported  somethine  thet  I  know  any  pilot  would

 have  reported.  I  don't  think  thet  in  eny  wey  my  observation  was  due  to  any

 sensivity  of  eye  sicht  or  judgment  then  what  is  considered  normal  for  any pilot.

  On  June  24th,  Tuesday,  1947,  I  had  finished  my work  for  the  Central Air

 Service  at  Chehalis,  Washington,  and  at about  two  o'clock  I  took off fron

 Chehalis,  Washington,  airport  »  the  intention  of  -oing  to  Yakima,  Washe

 y  trip  was  delayed  for  an  hour  to  search  for  a  large  marine  transport  that

 supposedly  went  down  near  or  around  the  southwest  Side  of  lit.  Rainier  in  the

 state  of Washington  and  to  date  has  never  been  found.

  I  flew  directly  toward  lt.  Rainior after  reaching  an altitude  of  about

9,500 feet,  which  is  the  approximate  elevation of  the  hich  plateau  from which

Mt.  Rainer  rises.  I  had  made  one  sweep of this  high plateau  to  the westward,

searching all  of  the  various  ridges  for  this  marine  ship and  flew to  the  west

down and  near the  ridge  side  of  the  canyon where  Ashford,  Washington,  is  located.

  Unable  to  see anything thet  looked  like  the  lost  ship,  I  made a 360 degree

turn to  the  right  end  above  the  little  city  of Mineral,  starting again toward

Mt.  Rainier.  I  climbed  back up  to  an  altitude  of  approximately 9,200 feet.

  The  air  was  so  smooth  that day  that  it was  a real Pleasure  flying and,

as  most  pilots  do  when  the  air  is  smooth  and  they  are  flying  at  a  higher

altitude,  I  trimmed  out  my airplane  in  the  direction of Yakima,  Washington,

which was  almost  directly east of my position
  end  simply  sat  in my plane ob-

serving  the  sky  and the  terrains

  a) D3)
  ost
  There was a  DC-4  to  the  left and  to  e@  rear of me approximately

fifteen miles  distance,  and  I  should judge,  at  14,000  foot  elevation.

  The  sky  and air  was  as  clear  as  crystal  I  hadn't  flown  more  than

two  or  three  minutes on  course  en  a bricht  Slash  reflected  on  my

airplane.  It  startled  I  thought  I was  too close  to  some  other air-

oraft.  I  looked ever:  i  and  couldn't  find where  the  reflec-

tion  had come  from until  Ie  e  r  the  r  f  eainier

where  I  observed  a  chain  of  nir  peculiar  looking  aircraft  fl  rom  north

to  south at  approximately  9,500  foot  elevation  and  goin

  ection  of  about  170  degrees.

  They were  approachin=  ainier  very  rapidly,  nerely  assumed

they  were  jet  planes.  A  discovered  that  this  s  where  eo  reflece

tion had come  from,  m  every  few  se  would  dip

change  their  course  sli

angle  that  reflected  bri

  ‘ew  seconds  to

  ke  out  their  shape  or  t  ir  formation.

 einier, and  I  observed

  1
  thou-ht

  reat  interest
  mountair

 sutheast down the  mounte in

  have  varied a  thousand  feet one  way or  anotl  4p or  down,
elevation could

but they were  ty much on the  horizon t  i  ould  indicate they:

were near  the  same elevetion es  I was.

  like many  times I heve observed geese to  fly  in a rether

  n-like  line as  if  were  lin

  jirection  ut  rather  swerved  in end  out

  heir speed  t impress  m  erticularly

  that  our  ar!
  “@

and  as,  south  crest  of  thi

object was

  hese  saucer  1i

could quite accurately determine

were  several

  her  peaks

  my  sweep

that  they had  travelled  the  minute

Even  at  the  time  this

would  land  there  would  be  some  explanation  c

  A  number  of  née  en  and  experts  surcrested  +  4  hav  een

seeing  refl  solutel

  I  observed  these  only  throu

turned  ny  airplene  could  open  my  win

  I  continued my  search  for  the  marine  plane  for  another

twenty  minutes  and  while  searching  for  this
  nis  marine  plane,  whet

observed  kept  roinz  through  my mind.  I  beeame  more  disturbed,  so  after

taking a last  look at  Tieton  Reservoir  I  headed  for  Yakima.

  I might add thet my complete observation of  these  objects, ¥

could een  follow by  their  Slashes  as  they  passed  iit.  Adams,  was  around  two
visions

 ople
  rad  a  movie

  without  one  -  -

  story.  When  I  landed  the  Yakima,  Wash.,

  ood  fri

and  was,very
FBI  as  to  the  henti  yo  .  1  aysicel  examination

ab  to  capabili

protective  forces

report  I
  HEADQUARTERS  TACTICAL  AIR  COMMAND

  LANGLEY  FIELD.  VIRGINIA

rence  obs

Ale.

  rilliance
  n10ted
dices©
direction
  7

impossi
great  he io)

phenomem.  and
a  flig

  >le  explanation
source  if
  of  ich ¢ ected  con  t: rary
This  report  is 8  submitted  upon  request
  ost,  in  Lew  a

reference  unusual  aerial  objects  observed  throughout  the

  the  above  noted  observers  are  rated  pilots  and  the  other  two
are  air  ace  officers.  All  observers  were  cold  sobor,  oft

  Attached  herewith  a  sketch  showi
  ri
  ourse  of

  —/ lL

  Captain,  Air
  TACTICAL
  i  8
  ADORESS ALL COMMUNICATIONS TO:  COMMANDING GENERAL.
«= DIRECTOR, ESET scar *
  WASHINGTON 20, D.C,
  am Liarsom orrice @ &
  NAVY  DEPARTMENT
  9\v
  NAVAL RESEARCH LABORATORY
.  TO:
  AND REFER

  Code 110  WASHINGTON 20, D.C.

  18 July 1947

  SUBJECT:  Interview of Person Reporting Unidentified Aerial Object

  T0:  Asst Chief of Air Staff-2
  Collection Branch, AAF
  Washington 25,  D. C.

  1. At the request of Lt. Col. G. D. Garrett, AAF A-2, the
  undersigned has interviewed this date Mr. C. H. Zohn, Administrative
  Assistant in the Rocket Sonde Section, NRL, who had previously
  released information to the press regarding an aerial object which
  he stated he saw at White Sands, New Mexico, 29 June.

  2.  Substance of the interview is as follows:

  At between 1:00 and 1:30 p. m. Sunday, 29 June 1947,
  Mr. Zohn, in the company of the following: Mr. J. R. Kauke, NRL Rocket
  Sonde Section telemetering supervisor; Mr. C. C. Rockwood, NRL Rocket
  Sonde high altitude spectrograph scientist; and Mre. Nancy Rockwood,
  wife of the letter, was proceeding along Highway 17 in a North-Easterly
  direction from Las Cruces, New Mexico to White Sands V-2 firing grounds
  in an automobile driven by Mr. Kauke. At some time between those given
  and about one-third of the distance from Las Cruces Mr. Kauke, who was
  driving the car, noticed the subject @evice and called attention to the
  other occapants. Mr. Zohn opened the window nearest him and observed
  the object moving at an unknown rapid velocity at an unknown altitude,
  which he estimated at about 10,000 feet, and which Mr. Kauke, who also
  observed it through an open window, estimated at between 8,000 and
  10,000 feet, although the former puts little credence in the estimates.
  When first sighted the object was to the right and forward
  of the automobile at an unstated elevation and was apparently moving
  horizontally in a Northerly direction such as to cross the highwa  y from
  right to left. The object was  observe d by all  persons  in  the  automo  bile.
  Mr. Zohn stated that he could not  observe any  details  of  the  object
  other than that its shape was uniform, with no protuberances euch as
  the wings of an airplane. It was too distant to enable stereoscopic
  visualization. There was apparently some solar specular reflection
  it
  which seemed to change in intensity as the object receded until first
  was lost from sight after an estimat ed 30 seconds from the time
  noticed. He could not explain how it disappeared except perhaps that
  ntly
  the reflection angle may have changed abruptly. There were appare
  no clouds or visibility obstructions at the time. The sun was to the
  rear of the automobile. Mr. Kauke thought that at one time he saw
  vapor trails.
  e  @  e@  e

Ltr, ALO,  NRL,  18 July 47  to  Asst  Chief Air  Staff-2,  Collection Br., AAF,
subj:  "Interview  of  Person  Reporting  Unidentified Aerial  Object"

  3.  This  interview was  made  in  the  presence  of  Dr. H.  E.  Newell,
Acting  Rocket  Sonde  Section  Head,  who  said  that  Mr.  Zohn  had recently
been  in  the  Navy  and  is  familiar  with  the  appearance  of  the  majority  of
aircraft  types  and with  meteorological  balloons.  Mr.  Zohn  also  stated
that  none  of  the  occupants  of  the  car were  intoxicated.

  WILLIAM P, MELLEN
  Major, Air  Corps
  AMC  Lisison Officer
  Stevens,  v

  SMITH  was  intorviewed  st  1500,  9  July  1947,  concerning
 the “flying  disks",  and  stated  substantially  as  follow,

  "Te left Boise,  Id  0  i  i  +  At approxi
 2015,  the  co-pilot,  Ralph  N  2  ion  the  first  ob
 seen.  We were  then  in  the  v  altitude  wes  anp-
 roximately 6500,  and  we were  o  E  isi  altitude  of
 3000  from  there  to  Poadletor
 was  300  degrees Magnetic

 the  objects
 two minutes,

  "Shortly after the first group disappeared,  probably one cr  two minutes
 later, the second  group  eppeared  about  310  degrees,  or  to  the right  of  the
plane.  Their altitude was  the  e-~>  as  tho  t  groupe  ee  of  the objects
 eppeared to  be  on  the  same  plane,  and  one  obfect  appeared  slightly  hi
 and to  the right  of  the  others.  sond  ps  ed  thin  our
twelve  to  fifteen  minutes,  then  disappeared.  We  iad  levelled  of?  b
time  the  second  group  2  sappeered,

  objects  were  flat  on  the  bese,  the  slightly  rough  in  contour.
The  dimensions  appeared the  some  as  a DC-3  :  ately  five miles  from
use  In  o#her words,  it  could  have  been  ninety  miles  eway  if  it would  be
possible for  an object  as  large  sc  that would  have  to  be  to  be flying,  but
since we  didi't lmow what we were looking at or how
  largo it was, we  decided that  if it were the size of a'DC-3 wing span
  (90 feet), it was  about
five miles  distent.  Actually, we have no idea just how
  large it was  since
we  could rot  determine  its  distance  from  us.  When  we  first  sighted  the
objects,  we  decided  they were  sither going  away  from  us  or  coming  towards
us.  After  a short while,  however, we knew they  couldn't be  coming  towards
us,  bocause we  never  epproached  them.  I  don't  believe  they  could have
beea going  a great rate  of  speed  and still  stayed  in  sight  for  as  long  as
they did.  I would  judge  they might have  beon  travelling  about  300 miles
per hour,

  "iy personal  opinions regarding the objects  are - that their Speed
varied, was not constent.  When first sighted, they were going slow and
stayed within sight for quite sone time.
  However, when we lost sight of
them, they seemed to disappear practically immed
  iately. I think they
either put on ea tremendous burst of speed
  and disappeared from sight, or
else they dissipated.  Also,  it  appeared that only one object,  the large
one,  was  controlled,  and  it  in  turn  controlled  the  other  ob  cts,  and  I
think they were ground  controlled.
cork  @ @  @ ®

  "In both  instances,  the co-pilot  sighted the objects  first and called
my  attention  to  then  The  weather  was  clear  and  unlimited,  with  not  a  cloud
in  the  sky.  We  che  da  the wind,  and  it  was  230-10,  or  out  of  the  Southwest
at  ten miles  per  «  The  air  speed  of  the  p was  about  1385  MPH.  The
sun was  below the  horizon  and  the  objects were  silhoueted  against  the  sky,
hence we could distinguish no  color  or reflection."

  co-pilot  of  the  plane,  was  interviewed eat  2130,  9  July
  corroborated the remarks made  by SNITH  concerning  the  flight
of the plane,  the  time the objects were sighted,  direction of the  flight of
the  plane,  etc.  There  were  two  discrepancios  in  their  stat  mts  as  to  the
size  of  the smaller objects  and  the altitude  at which  they were  flying.
STEVENS  stated that  there was  a big  difference  in  the  size of the  large
objects  and  the smaller  ones,  and that  it was  herd to  distinguish  the  shepe
of the smaller  ones.  STEVENS  also  steted that  the  objects wero at  the same
altitude  as  their  plane and  ecemed  to  be  climbing with  them.  In  addition  to
confirming  SMITU'S  statements  concerning the  flight,  etc.,  STEVENS  stated
substantially  as  follows:

  "I was  flying the plane when I  spotted the  first object et 2012 on the
4th  of July,  eight minutes  after departure from  Boise,  Idaho.  I  thought  it
was an oncoming aircraft similar to ours (DC-3) sbout five miles away, 80
turned on our landing lights,  which  is  the usual  signal to another plane to
let it know  you're in the vicinity.  I mentioned this fact to SMITH, and he
watched the  object also.  While we were both watching, four more objects
appeared at  the samo altitude as the first.  They scemed to be et the sane
eltitude as  our plane, about 6000 feet.  They were heading about 290 degrees
magnetic North,  so  I  turned  to  follow them.  We watched them for four or
five minutes,  then they all  merged as one and  disappeared.  I  don't know
wnether they merged in line of flight or not, nor do  I know whether they
went beyond our vision or whether they dissipated,

  "Two minutes later, the large object reappeared with three smaller
ones on its left end one smaller one a great distance to the right.  We
had the second group in sight for about twelve minutes.  The last time
seen, they were still in that formation and disappeared into the sunset.
Also, when we last saw them, they seemed to have continued climbing after
we  levelled off and were about nine or ten  thousand feet.

  "At the time we saw the objects, the sun war below the horizon, but
there was quite a bright red glow above the horizon from the sunset.  i
couldn't really say what distance they were from us, not knowing what they
were or how large they were.  However, while we wero watching  then we
radiod ahead to Ontario,  Oregon, about thirty miles distent, to the weether
station  there,  and told them what we were seoing and asked them to go outside and see if they could see them.  They radioed back and said they could
  @  @
see nothing,  so  the objects  could have been beyond Onterio,  since we had
told them that they wero between our plane and
  Ontario.  It  should also  be
“noted that  the personnel at Ontario would be looking at a dark sky and
may not be likely to be able to see  them anyway.

  "I can't say whether they are man-made disks or not, whether
  they are
radio  controlled or not,  or  anything about  them.  They  did not maneuver much
at  all,  except when the first group merged.  All  I  can say  is  that they were
going  our direction and were climbing.  I  don't think they were clouds,  as
there hadn't been  a cloud  in the sky,  end it would have been quite a phen-
~omenon as it was like nothing I had ever seen before.  There was a big difference in the size of the objects,  The smaller ones were hard to distinguish
as to shape; they were not shiny, nor did the "flip".
  I couldn't swear on a
stend that they were not clouds, but I think it impossible,
  lad  they been
clouds, they wouldn't have appeared and disappeared so suddenly,  end we
would have approached than.

  "As we were taxi ing out to teke off from Boise,  the tower called us
and asked  us  if we had seen  any disks  lately.  As  a  consequence,  we were and
had been talking about the flying  disks when we sighted  tham.  I  don't believe,
however, that  it was  a figment  of the  imagination,  as  SMITH  and  I were  seeing
the  seme things,  even  the object  far  off  to  tho  right  in  the  second  group.
We also  called the stewardess,  who had not been  in on the  conversation,  and
without mentioning  "disks"  aksed  her what  she  saw.  She  stated  that  she  sew
the  same things  we  did,  which  seemed  to  prove  to  us  that  it was  not  our
imagination.”

  In addition to the above,  STEVENS  stated,  off the record,  that he wes
rather  disa  inted  in  SMITH end  all  the publicity  he ras  getting.  iie
  SMITH was  probably  “grand-standing” some,  and  thet  as  far  as
he,  STEVENS,  was  concerned,  he was  not  going  to be interviewed by any reporters,  or  go  on  the  radio,  etc.  ie  stated  that  he was  glad  to  talk  to
a  Navy  representative  about  it,  or  to  any  other  gover  t  official,  and
help  in  any way he could,  but  le certa  y didn't want  be  bothered with

lot  of publicity, whereas  SMITH,  althouch  a sensiblo man  and all,
be  more  in  favor  of  all  the publicity  he was  getting.
  Incident
  LaF 1208 I
  16 July 1947

MEMORANDUM FOR THE OFFICER IN CHARGE:

  1. On 12 July 1947, Captain Snith, of the United Airlines, was
interviewed at the Boise Municipal Airport, Boise, Idaho.
  Captain
Smith was passing through Boise on a schedule flight  at the time and
had a 20 minute stop-over.  Captain Smith reiterated the statements
originally made by him to the press as  to what he had seen in the late
evening of July th,  when 8 minutes out of Boise on the route to Seattle
  ,
Washington.  It is the opinion of the interviewer that due to the position
Captain Smith occupies, that he, Captain Smith, would have
  to be very
strongly convinced that he actually saw flying disks before
  he would open
himself for the ridicule attached to a report of this types

FRANK M, BROWN, S/A,  CIC th AF
  isles ARMY AIR oe,  WASHINGTON  mS

  16 July 1947

  &;  AC,  do  hereby  swear,  thie-dete,
  are  true  to  the  best  of  my  imowledge:

(Kee abaohed dkapeewt
  AS  rat
  ADORESS REPLY To:  COMMANDING GENERAL, ARMY
  AIR FORCES, WASHINGTON
  Roan Nab #
  28, D,

  tol
  e®  sii |
  After having been afvised of ay rights ani privileges under the
26th Article of War, I, 4AMRS H. BURNISTON, Captain, Air Gerps, 0-867517,
Second Air Transpo  Wing
  rt (Provision), Mairfield-Suigu  Army Air
  n Base,
Fairfield, California, do hereby mxe this voluntary statement to
  3. Frasier, drs, and Sgt. Tomy Stew  whom I
  art,know
  Office.  I mke the following statement
ag  @uress, promise of reward or immunity:

  et Mairfield-S
  Army Air
  uisun Base, while
  + James Ke Bar:  S

  ! iA
  i
He }
  iit
ha sugrt
i

  uf

ue
  |
  i  He
  “
  attribute any souni to this object, because of the noise

  Fe
  aircraft engine.
  b>

  time was verified by my wife as being less than one.
  time it was in sight.

  ident
  ofity
  this o¥jeot, it was not the shape of any type
  to  undersigned. There was no shape of wings or fuselage.
  af  at first by the sun’s reflecting off its eurfaceand
  it was traveling.

  2
  Civil  Air Patrol
AUXILIARY  OF THE  U. S. ARMY AIR  FORCES

  WISCONSIN WING  HEADQUARTERS

  161  W. WISCONSIN AVENUE

  MILWAUKEE  3, w.
  WAR DEPARTMENT
  SSIFIED MESSAGE CEN
  INCOMING CLASSIFIED MESSA
  GE
  mM  |

  FIGITY

  PARAPHRASE NOT REQUIRED,  HANDLE AS ConPIoEntiAn—c  &
  RESPONDENCE PER PARAS 511 and 60a (4) AR 380-5

  CG  £BAMA  San Bernadino Calif

  OG AAFP Wesh DC  attn AC/AS 2, Counter  Intel?
  Division; CG Sixth Arny, Attn: AC/S,G6 23  C
  AMC thru si datas aha AMA, Calif attn Chie
  Section

  1023592  lO July

  at approximetely 1550  Ps? on i  Moor-
  96 Ftr Sq, while flying rout‘  test
  51 at 20°,000 feet indicated, sighted a flat
  woe of light reflecting nature which appeared to be with-
  out  vertical  fin  or any visible wings with arpparent depth
  of a P 51 airplane at approximately 35, 000 feot Siti tude
  and approximate  location of  tes  £4  th:
  117 degrees 3  ng  Object  was  in
  3  approximately 30 seconds.  Object vas again sighted
  at "155065 PST at approximately 50000 feet Bltitude and  over
  Mount Baldy approximate location of 34 degrees 20 minuter
  latitude-117 degrees 47 minutes west longitude,

  Pilot attempted  to  keep object in sight but was
  un6ble  to do so,  Speed  of  P 51 Spproximately 300 mph anc
  climbing.  March Field  and  other  bases  in area  were  contectec
  and  reported  none  of  their  ships  in  :the  air.

  ACTION:  AAF  DIST fl !
  INFO:  ID,  P30,  Spec Wy,  R&

  CM IN. 187  (12 Jul 47)

  ae
  ep  3

posthigh”
  tenet
  aie  eee

  "NGTION COP.
  THE MAKING OF AN EXACT COPY OF THIS MESSAGE IS FORBIDDEN
  t
  They Praca
  :  ‘  xe
  @re Ars efracs brani
  Wv/
  age! Topthew  (Che Comte ~  nae)

  PO  bt"  for  BVKe rary
  Meee @ Wo’ « CHA Asghe~
  whore] le my
  trkh...  Fernag Utiw, ke
  /

  &  Wel  fr

  tLe Felivnu
  Arrnee  Fea
  AAdhA  heer

  vp ae C= ps Gt wastlp-g ttf
  Brine wed  ty 1  bering Ke War Weken
  he

  rhe nhye  Amuaf/
:  pe thee
  Z
  rus
FROM:  CG ATLD ATC FORT TOTTEN, N.Y

TIME AND DATE FILED:  1423232 JULY 1947  ~-

TO:  CG ATC ATTN CHIEF OF STa¥¥

MESSAGE FROM NEWFOUNDLAND BASE COMMAND SUBJECT QUOTE FLYING DISCS UNQUOTE

GIVES FOLLOWING SUMMARY OF INTERVIEW WITH IRIC KEARSEY CMA NEWFOUNDLAND

CONSTABULARY CLN CONSTABLE REPORTED SEEING FOUR BGG SHAPE PHOSPHORUS COLOR

BIScs  FALLS MEWFOUMDLAND AT TWO THREE THREE ZERO HOURS LOCAL

og smo 4 SINGLE DISC OMB ZERO MINUTES LATER PD AT FIRST APPEAR~
ANCE ACCOHDING TO KEARSBZY FOUR DISCS WERE CLOSE TOGETHER IN ABLE LINE A TRAIL

FORMATION MOVING EAST PARALLEL TO GROUMD PD SINGLE DISC LESS CLEAR BUT

TRAVELING SAME DIRECTION PD KEARSEY WOULD ROUGHLY ESTIMATE ALTITUDE OF DISCS

AT THREES ZERO THOUSAND FEET SEMICLN APPAHENTLY MOVING VERY FAST aS THEY

DISAPPEARED IM ABLE FEW SECONDS PD KBARSBY SAID SHAPE OF DISC WAS LIKE

BARREL HGAD OR BOG SHMICLN BLACK SPOTS ON TAILEND SHMICLN MO SMOKE TRAIL
SEMICLN AMD HERE REPORTED THAT ANOTHER OBSERVER COMPARED SHAPE OF DISCS 10

THREE LEAP PD EMD OF COMMUNICATION
  FROM NEWFOUNDLAND BASE COMMAND PD ESTAB-

LISHED BY INTERVIEWER CMA NONCOM IN CHARGE REPEATER STATION GRAND FALLS CMA

THAT CAVU WAS WRATHER AT TIMES INDICATED
1» PD COLOR: SILVERY PD DISC Was Fiast SIGHTBD ABOUT 6 MILES SOUTH SOUTH \
  ‘WEST PROM HARMON FIEDD BY MR MERHMAN, TWA UEPRESBNTATIVE AND R

  \ MOODRUFF, PAA MEPHESENTATIVE PD DISC APPEARED ABOUT THE SAME SPAN AS
  C+ AY 10000 FEET, TMS CIACULAR IN SHAPE LIKE WUGONS WHEEL, DISC
/  SERIED TO CUT THE CLOUDS GPRM AS IT PASSED THRU AND DRFY A SLUISH PLUCK

“TRAIL APPRORTIATELY PIPTEEM MILES LONG PD TRATL WAS STUITAR TO THE
  “BRAM  SESW APTER A HIGH PONESED LANDING LIGH
  OR SEARCH
  T LIGHT 18 swrrcHED
  OFP_PD KODACHROME PICTUWS WERE TAKE! AND ARE BEINC DEVELOPED STATE
  arrestin THEY AN® RECEIVED BY
  MESSAGEFORM f=
  ie  Tee1ue7|
  wR

arial aici SPACE ABOVE FOR SIGNAL CENTER ONLY
 FROM:  (Originater)  59th AACS ey
  rinyy  Blmencor?  Alaska
ACTION To:

  COMAS ATTH ASST CHIEF STAFF
  INTSLLIGXNCE

  AIMS  FIVE MILES  AWAY PD  OB

  FLYING  aALTITULE  Wa  FIVE  ZskO  ZERO FEET  SSTIMATING  Ulin  ZERO

  MAS  VBSAHV2D  PAnALLELING  Thu  COUKSS  OF

  Vesti  LAs OIG  NuATHvaST  ITU  U  ZekO  MILS  PER  E

  .
  x
  leon

  IhD  PL  OBJaCT  WaS
  v

  UBSsRVED  Ue  Zz.

  UE  ZERO

  =D  HIS

  1  8  worst  Fiat  correspondence
  Oa (4), AK 350-5, 15 August 1945.

  UTHORIZA TION ————__]

  ORIGINATING AGENCY.
  OATE-TIME GROUP  | OFFICIAL TITLE

  PAGE  OF

  tes 11-168 and WD AGO Form 801, 12 Mar
  ‘This form super WD
  sedes
  43, wh
  AGO Form 11-1
  areich
  obsolete.
  28 Aug
  68, 44,  XO—somor-1  FE.  covennment Paturine orice

  fe
  MESSAGEFORMO) =" ==
  CALLS

  Vv  3  7.  avrit
  WWake  4  ee  4  A Aa

  SPACE ABOVE FOR SIGNAL CENTER ONLY
  59th  AACS Grou
  FINYR  Elmendorf Alaska

  CONAS

  ATT ASSISTANT CHIEF  OF  STs¥F
  INTELLIGLNCE  _O ORIGINAL MESSAGE
  REFERS TO ANOTHER MESSAGE
  IDENTIFICATION  |  CLASSIFICATION

  DIAMETER  WAS  REPOKTED  SEEN  AT AN  UL eT chal N2D

  ULE FLYING AT A GReAT SPESD Ti  A NURTH TO  SUUTH

  ION  PD OBSzeaVATION WaS MAUS  I  VICINITY  OF  “LMsliDORP

  »

  AND MAJUR GEYSER THIS HEAUQLARTENS PD

  ArBik- ©
  ly 4

  Peraphrase uot-required.,  Haeudle  as GonriortAt  correspondence
  per paragraphs 511i  and 6um (4),  AR 380-5,  15 August 1946,

  CURITY CLASSIFICATION

  farawes  7  "Ts4T
  Wwe  4 eet  &  a eee

  ORIGINATING AGENCY
  DATE-TIME GROUP
  PAGE  OF

WD AGO roam 11  168  This form supersedes
  WD AGO Form 11-168,
  23 Aug 44,  16—48501-1 «WY «W. &. GOVERNMENT
  ParmTin’ orrice
15 50m 1945  =  and WD AGO Form 801, 12 Mar 43, which are obsolete.
  Package received from Sheriff Merle T. Wilmoth, Watseka, Ill. His
letter states the instrummt in the package was found by a farmer at
Danforth, Ill.  It landed in the middle of a section of his farm land and
burned weeds 23 feet  tall to fine ash an area of 1} feet  in diam. around
where  the  object  dropped.

  The instrument  consists  of:

  aster of paris body having an oval cavity thru it.

  A power microphone which screws over one end of the oval cava
  The power microphone carried the name, "Nathaniel Baldwin Inc.”
  salt Lake City, Utah. Pat May 10 1910 & Sept 14, 1916. Pat Nos
  957403  (second number not readable)

  A small "Polymat”  filter condenser.

  Two bakelite cylinders to which is attached a net work of fine
  copper wire. These ware obviously coils and the impact has torn
  the wire from the core. (Our radio section definitely states that
  this is old stuff, or the coils were used  quite some time ago,
  since having been replaced bysmaller more “efficient coils)
  A plece of metal having magnetic properties obviously broken off
  the power microphone as a result of the impact.

  The plaster of paris body was broken up by the impact but some of the
pieces were held together by wire reinforcement inside the plaster of paris.

urs. Whedon  3B 274  Ext 73909 (sig C) was shown this object by Mr.
Zimmer of the FBI. Mrs “hedon claims she knew what it was, but couldn't
tell  Zimmer.
7

  STAND
  FORM No.
  ARD  64

  Office Memorandum + ontvep states GOVERNMENT
  947 JUL 22  AM II 44.
  To  ?  Mr. Moxon,  Regional  Oe  1,  NeY,  7/15/47

  FROM  =: Mr, liricht,

  SUBJECT:  “Flying Disks"

  We  hesitate  to  make  this  report  coneerning  our  pilot  b
  observations  in regards to  a  flying  disk because  of  rable
  national  skepticism  regarding the  subject  at  present.  However, local
  newspapers  inform us  that the  U.  S.  Government  admits  no  authority  for
  -such a  ship  or object  and  for its  flights.  Then we must  assume  this
  strange object  to be  foreign.  Therefore, we  submit  this  report  for your
  information.  If  sighted  again,  we wonder  if  it would be  a  good  idea to
  drop the balloon and  instead make  observations on this  disk.
  -

  Mr. Minczewski has observed this strange metallic  disk on three
  occasions through the theodolite ‘while making his  pibal  observation
  during the  last  six months.  Miss Baron has reported observing  it on
  ome occasion.  Miss Baron's report agrees with vr. Minczewski's observations
  except as to the  color-which she  reported as  a dull metallic  luster.

  Mr. Minozewski last observed tifi's disk im April 1947 at the 1100E
  Pibal Observation when the balloon was at 15 thousand feet.  fhe disk was
  followed for 15 seconds, epparently moving on level flight from east to
  west to the far north of the station.  The object was a metallic like Chrome
  *  -shaped something like an ellipse with a flat level bottom and a dome like-round
  top.  The disk appeared below the balloon, was much larger in size in the
  instrument, and shined like silver. It was impossible to estimate the height
  or speed of the disk except that it appeared to be moving rather r@pidly.
  Miss Baron observed the isk when her balloon was at about 27 thousand feet.
  All days observed were either clear or with very few clouds and good visibility. - |

  Very truly yours,  }

  Bhagef thaght  —

  +S

  MATER EL
  SECRETARY | per
  FUE
