  STANDARD FORM No. 64  @  @

  Office Memo;  .dum + owitep s1  OVERNMEN
  Pcs
  TO
  Director, FBI  fi,  A)  DATE: September 4, 1947
wn FROM  SAC, San Francisco
  {
  \  AIRMAIL
  SPECIAL DELIVERY
  SUBJECT:
  REPORTS of FLYING DISCS
  Enclosed is a copy of a letter dated August 25, 1947, with
  attachment fran Lt. Col, DONALD L. SPRINGER of A~2, Hamilton Field,
  California. Even though Col. SPRINGER feels that Mr. JOHNSON may
  have read some of his claims in a newspaper, Col, SPRINGER believes
  that Mr, F. M>XJOENSON should be interviewed in this matter.

  In accordance with Bureau Bulletin No. 42, dated July 30,
  1947, Portland is requested to exhaustively interview Mr. F. M
  JOHNSON, 106 N.W. First Ave., Portland, Oregon, regarding his
  alleged sighting of a "flying disc" on June 24, 1947. Copies of
  the result of this interview should be furnished the San Francisco
  Field Office for distribution to the 6th Army Intelligence.

  DWK:MR
  Encls. 2
  62-2938

  cc Portland (Encls. 4) = AMSD
Authority

NND 90986

  ence

  eld,  California

  f  in Charge,  FBI,  U.  S.  Department  of
  Federal  Office  Building,  Room 422,  San Francisco,

  le:  The  attached  true  copy of  a  letter  from Mr. F.
  was  received  by this officer  22  August  1947.

  2e  Your attention  is  invited  to the  similarity  between Arnold's
  early report  and  this  gentleman's  report,  A  possibility exists  that
  Mre  Johnson  might  ve  reed  some  of  this  in  the  newspapers  when  Arnold
  was  publicized  re  this  matters

  3.  This  headquarters  does  not  intend  to  investigate  +}  incident.
  It  is  requested  thet  a  result  of  any  interview you may make  be  furnished
  hoadquarters,

  ONALD  L.  SPRINGER
  tt.  Colonel,  Gs¢
  C of  S,  A-2
  ON,  August  20th  1947

  Lte  Col.  Donald  L.

  Sire  Saw  in  ards  to

  cle  in  re  any  basis
  istri ot

  t

  ure  ou

  pass

greater

were  stan

  TRUE  COPY:

Li  Colonel,  G8¢/
AC  of  8,  A-2

  RIDT DENTPIAI
  ZiINivL DDIViiAL,
STANRARD FORM NO. 64

  6
Office: Men  dum * UNITED §  GOVERNMENT
  Director, FBI  DATE:  September 4, 1937
  Atten:  Assistant Director D. M. LADD
  SAC, San Francisco
  AIRMAIL
SUBJECT:

  Enclosed for your information are copies of two letters
  from Lt. Col. DONALD L. SPRINGER of A~2, Hamilton Field, California,
  dated August 27, 1947, with attachments reporting the sighting of
  "flying discs" on Guam, and result of A-2 investigation at Tacoma
  and Kelso, Washington.

  DWK: MR
  62-2938
  SECRE
  crecbp
  Hi
  Der:
  yy

  HEADQUARTERS FOURTH AIR FORCE
  Office of the Assistant Chief of Staff, Aq-2
  Intelligence
  Hamilton Field,  California

4APDA  27 August 1947
333 .5/1208-1  9  hea

 SUBJECT:  Re Flying Disc.

TOs  Special Agent in Charge, FBI, U. S. Department of Justice,
  Federal Office  8uilding,  Room 422,  San  Francisco,  California.  {
  \

  V

  1.  Following is extract from the Weekly Intelligence Summary,
Air Transport Command, Washington 25, D. C., dated 20 August 1947,
_ Copy Noe 120, Article I, Pg ls

  “PLYING OBJECTS IN GUAM: Unidentified flying objects have
  been observe  “ee American enlisted men of the 147th Air=
  ways and Air Communications Service Squadron at Harmon Field,
  Guem,  The men report that at 1040 hours on 14 August 1947 the
  ‘two objects, which they describe as small, crescent shaped and
  traveling at a speed twice that of a fichter plane, passed over
  them on « zig-zag course in a westerly direction at an
  mate altitude of twelve hundred feet.  The objects dis
  ‘Amto clouds and a few seconds later a similar object possibly
  one of those previously observed, emerged from the clouds and
  proceeded west.  Wo further details have been reported."

  2-  For your information.

  L.  SPRINT  /
  Lt. Colonel,  GSC
  ;  AC of S,  Aw?
  HEADQUARTERS  FOURTH AIR FORCE
  Office  of the Assistant  Chief of  Steff,  A-2
  Intelligence
  Hamilton  Field,  California

4APDA
  27 August  1947
333 5/1208-1

SUBJECT:  Investigation  of  Flying  Disc.

  Special  nt  in  Charge,  FBI,  U.  S,  Department  of  Justice,
  Federal  Office  Building,  Room 422,  San Francisco,  California.

  Attached  summary forwarded  for  your  information.

  DONALD L.  SPRING
1  Incl:  Colonel,  OS¢
  Summary  of  Information.  AC  of S,  A=2

  AUG 30 1947

  SAN FRANCISC(  Ses
  ROUTED TO  a3?
  Field,  California

4AFDA
  27 August  1947
333.65/1208-1

SUBJECT;  Investigetion  of Flying  Dise.

10:  peoial  Agent  in  Charge,  FBI,  U.  S.  Department  of  Justice,  _
  Seattle,  Washington.

  Attached  summary  forwarded  for  your  information,

1  Incl:  DONALD L.  SPRINGER
  Summary  of  Informations  Lt.  Colonel,  GSC
  AC  of  8,  Az
  6 ECONFIBE

  PY

  &  E  SERVICE
  DETAC  78 (62a AAP BY)
  MeChord Field,  Tacoma, “ashington

  4 August  1947

  Pinal  “ission  Report

  Commanding  Officer
  Air Rescue Service
  MacDill  Field,  Florida

  MISSION  NUMBER Thirtyeline.

  ATURE.

  Qe  At  C400  PST,  1  August 47,  ARMY  FLIGHT  RVICE notified this
Getachnent that a plene  had been  seen to crash and  burn thirteen  (135) miles
south  of  KEL3O,  Washington  (46°98 'N,  122°55'W).

  Se  ACTION TA

  ae  1  s 47.  At  04:50  PGT,  APS  received information from  Mre  O-
Ge  Clark,  loonl  sheriff of ESLSO,  Washe, that the scene of the  crash wos
fifteen 38) to twenty (20) miles east of KELSO in the vicinity  of d0BLI
  BK, ‘The KELSO Chief of Police saw an aircraft fly low over tho Scaky
then crash Pie burn to the east. The time was about 0236 PST,  check of
airoraft mown to be in the vicini  revesled that 3-25j 1316. had departed
 iC RD FIELD at 0212 >: for HAMILTON FIELD, Californias The weather was
reported as  CFR,  A  full  moon  made visibility exceptionally  good.  The
pilot's name was CAPT. H.  C.  DAVIDSON; the  plane  carried three  ($) additional  ’
persona.  ‘he  Sase Operations Officer and Base  PIO were notified.  This
detachment  began organizing a  ground party  of base  personnel]  to  supplement
that  being  formed  by the KELSO Chief of Police.  At  0500 PST information
was  received from KELSO  by APS  that  ground  fog  in the  valleys at  the  seene
of the  crash was  preventing a  ground party  from locating  the  plane.  Since
no  communication  had been  received  from 8-25  #1316,  it was  umed  thet  it
was  the  plane  reported as crashed.  ARS  C-47 was  pre-flichted to transport
the  Arny ground party to  KELSO  but  a  check of  the field conditions there
deemed  it  advieable  to  use a  smaller aircraft.  Of  the  two  CeéSs  available,
one  belonging to APS was unserviced after a night flights  the other, belonging  to  AAGS, was  readied even though  a  responsible officer  of  that  organization was not  present to authorise  the  flight.  Fog at  KSLSO  ;
  ST.  The  ground party,  led by CAPT. Ws  Le
  »  consisted of  six men  ineludi  &@  medical  technician
  kt  0600  »  the  KELSO  Chief of  Police  notified APS
  i mirplene wes  in his office  and  had  confirmed

  &

  DENG
  F ius
  RIDIDDAITI  AY
  CVVI¥S SWING  TAL

Subjeoty  Final  Mission  Report”  4 Auguet 1947

The belief that  the  crash was thet of the  unreported B25.  The Passenger,
 Sgts  Be  Le  TAPP, of  FI.  LAWTON,  SEATTLE, was  uninjured,  but  reported that
the erew chief, T/Sgte We De MATHEWS, was at a farm house near the scene of
the  crash and was  injured.  igte  TAFF then led an ambulance  to  Sgt.  MATHEWS
who  was  subsequently  taken  to  ¢  local  hospital,  At  0610  PST  an attempt
wae made to telephone Sq, 3 at  MILTON FIELD but no anewer was received;
however, it was known that HAMILTON APS was aware of the incident and
would notify Sq. B,  At 0700 PST Capt. LITTRELL departed in a Ce465 for
KELSO,  At  O745  PST  Sq  B wae  contacted  by phone  and  givon @  flesh  report.
  §  PST  CAPT  LITTRELL  phoned  and  informed  that  he  had  placed  CAPTAIN
  R@  in  charge  of  Army  porsonnel  proceeding  to  the  scene  of  the  crash.
No nerial  search wae  necessary es civilians  in the area knew tho  exact
location of the crash and had reported finding one (1) body in the wreekkge.
CAPT. LITTRELL prepared to fly Sgt's TAFF and MATHEWS to MCCHORD FIELD  e
for medical attention, arriving at 0945 PST.  The survivors steted that  z
they believed  neither  the  pilot  nor  co-pilot  has  parachuted from the
Plones.  ‘The  enue of  the incident was at this time  determined  to be a fire
in the left  engine,  CAPT LITTRELL was informed by  Sgte  TAFF  that he
velieved classified  documents  had been aboard t)  planes  CAPT  FORSBERG
was  instructed  to  take  necessary precautions,  An anbulance  met  the plane
at MCCHOKD FI¢LD carrying the two survivors and took thom to the hospital.
Interrogetion revesled that the left engine had onught fire in the power
section  and  flames and  smoke  had  spread  to  the  flight  deck  almost  imned<
lately;  The  crew chief,  SWS, assisted TAFY in attaching his chest
pack and  TAFFY abandoned  the  plane  at  an estimated altitude  of 10,000  ft
(thie fact 10 doubted but is not considered necessarily rolevant).
UATEENS  helped  the  pilot  and  co-pilot  attach  their  chest  packs  (all  por=
sonnel  had boon wearing  the harness) and as he  left  the  plane wis aware that
the  co=pilot  wax preparing to  follow.  The  pilot  had  started  to  leave  and,
to  the  best  recollection of  MATHEWS, was  partially  stending  and  holding
the  control wheel  with his  left hand.  MAT  "S  etatenents indicate that
proper  emergency  procedures  had  been  performed  but  that  the  flames  had  enveloped  the  «ntire left side almost immediately.  TAPY stated that, because
of the full  moon and good visibility, he saw MATHEWS leave the plane and
was able  to follow the plane to the ground and that he sew no one olse
bail out.  The ship was enveloped in flames and was beginning to fell apart
before hitting the ground where it exploded and burned about one (1) mile
from where he,  TAPF, landed.  le lit in a tree, end not kmewing how to
release his  parachute of the quick-detachable tind,  cut himself  loose frou
the  herness with  hie pocket  knife.  Se  kicked end  struggled and eventually
jumped to the ground, receiving e« jolt on impact  dut was unable to  suess
how far  he  hed fallen.  He then  followed a  cow path for an  estimated  two
(2) miles to a farm house, arriving after  MATHEWS,  Meanwhile, as MATHERS
Cleared the plane he  turned and aew the plane strike the  ground,  explode
and  burne  Just  before  or just  at  the  time  of impact he  saw an  object
“fire  throm  clear  of  the  plane  but  did  not  know whether  it wes  &  person
or  part  of the  planes  MATE  Slso  lit  in  a  tree,  and  after  freeing  himself
from his  harness,  fell  to  the  ground  where  he  injured his  back.  He  lest
sonseiousness and on recovering went  to the  burning  plene,  about  fifty

  ARIDIDORNE

  a  TOULAIViLAL
  LAT
Subject:
  aitoeuiiamiraa|
  Final Mission Repers *  4 Auguet 1947
  -

(60) yards away.  Flares were going off and he thought best to leave the
B0enes  heard a stream nearby  end followed it until he came to a house and
roused the  oceupantse  Soon TAFF arrived at the  same house and, being uninjured, was driven into town.  Then he led an anbulance to effect transportation of MATHEWS to a hospitale  Meanwhile, civilians  reached the  scene of
the orash where they found one body.  At 0930 PST, a message from Sq 3
informed thet top secret material was in the navigators kit and to request
commanding Offieer MCCHORD  to expedite al1 available information to
Commanding Officer HAMILTON  F  Meanwhile,  CAPT PORSSERO and four (4)
enlisted men departed KELSO  jO  PS  ef the crash.  ‘hoy wore
  orted by  the  *  IROTC  4  LICE who knew the exact  locetion of
  @ (46°O9'N = 122043°W),  ‘The ground party determined upon arrival
  “@ goons, that two (2) bodies were in the wreckage.  Indications led to
  belief  thet the co-pilot was afire when he left the plane an instant‘
before impact.  Th. pilot's remains were found in the wreckages  Pree
liminary investigation by CAPT  G disclosed the planes left wing
about one hundred txenty-five (125) yards from the widely acattered porttions of the planes  The loft wing wis intact and hed apparently torn
off just outboard of the left engine before impact.  The forward portion
  4
of the wing stub was melted but the rear two thirds indicated thet  it had
ripped  loose  from  the  inboard seetion of  the wing.  The wing  leading edge
was undamaged,  The naVigation and  landing  li¢hts were unbroken.  The
sikeron was undamaged but  the flap  section was crushed,  leading to the
belief  that  the wing  struck the  teil  section.  From these  indicetions
it  1s  believed  the wing ripped  from the airplane  just  after MATHENS
abandoned the ple  The resulting  spin thus  prevented the remmining
erew members  from bailing out although  the  co-pilot may  heve  been  in  the
heteh,  A  few civilians were  in the area when  CAPT  FORSBERG arrived
and  he  took precautions  to  prevent  them  from  disturbing  the  wreckage.
At  1157 PST CAPT  LITTRELL flew CAPT RICH,  M.  C.,  to  EESLSO, An ambulance
a@igpatched  from MOCHORD PIELD,  met them at  KELSO,  and was led to the
of the  erash by the STATE POLICE.  The bodies were recovered and transported  in the azbulance to  RD  PIELD.  CAPT  LITTRELL returned to
  +}  ) PIELD where camping equipment was prepared to be dropped to the
ground party. CAPT LITTRELL, made a successful drop at dusk by sighting
on 8  signal fire.  The ground party set up camp at the wreckage  scene to
sot  as  guard and  to  investigate  further  the  following  dey.  They were
relieved of responsibility of «11 recovered documents by a CIC agent who
hed arrived about 1800  PST.

  bs  2 Aug 47-  The ground party remained at the  scene of the crash
pending  offielal  securing  of  the  incident.  No  aerial activity.

  @e  S Aug  476  MOCHORD  LD  Operations  Officer departed at  1000
PST  to  investigate  the accident and  to  relieve  CAPT  FOKSBARG,  who  returned
et  1600  Incident closede
  sorties  flown

  Army  aireratt

  As  Cooperation  reosived  from  s11  civiliter  r  s  concerned

was  complete and  excellent.

  otvoRraphs
  CRALQUARTARS FOURTH AIR FORCE @
  Office of the Assistant Chief of Staff, A-2
  Intellisense

  Hmeilton Pield, California

Trrx  iavestigation of Flying Dise

  ConTROLLING orFice “Lf Defense Commend, Mitchel Field
  Periop coverep  ......9+ Sway through 7 Auguat 1947
  CasE CLASSIFICATION  Incident
  STATUS OF CASE

  ASON FOR INVESTIGATION:  2veetigation initiated at the request of Air Defense
Goumaind. reference ltr lig ADC, dtd 7 Jul 47, file DSS3,5ID, subjs Investigatioof
  n
Flying Dieses

SYWOPSISs

  On 31 duly 47, Ure Arnold, Avietion “ditor of the Idaho daily Stateaman, telephoned Lie Grown requesting he return te Tacoma because Arnold believed he had some
very vitel information eon the flying disece

  Lie Srown end Capt. Davidson interviewed a Ure Fred Le Crigman and a WW. llerold
Ae Dahl, slong with Capt. Smith of the United Air Lines, and Ure Arnold, at the Wine
throp Hotel  in Yacom, “ashington, on the night of 31  July 1947.

  The gummery ef their interrogation and findings was related te Major Sender,
Public Information Officer, MeChord Field, by Mire Arnold and Captse Smithe Major
Sander retold the results of the investigetion to this officer from his notes.

  lire Dahl and Mr. Criaman were net available for interview while  this officer
was in that area, althoush every effort was mede to contact thems

  Further investigation of thie particular incident wes left with Mre  Srady,
sesident Agent, FBI, Tacoma, Washingtone

  it was epperent from newspaper clippings,  telephone calls to thie officer, and
conversations with %jor Sander, that a United Prees correspondent, of the Tacoma
Times, was instrumental in keeping this case alive.  This officer and Major Sander,
although quoted many times in the press, did not discuss this matter with the press
during the period of this report.

  The anonymous mystery caller in  Tecoma could possibly be Mire Crigmans.

  DiIsTRIBUTION
  AAP  ?  |

  j  PZ  4
  de? 6th Arny  ~ BOWALD Le  3  ute  Colénei, G56
  PSI, Seattle  phat  AMER  OS  Aa
  POI,  San  Francisco 1

  “nr-Fites  4  AUG 30 1947
  SAN FRANOIEC(

  form  W. D., O. C. S. Form No. 19, which
(The foes supeevaden W-D> 0... & Foem Ne. 38
CI-R1 Report  a  :  "  e

 DEPTAILSs

  le  During the afterncen of 31 duly 47, ur. Arnold, Aviation Sditer of
  the
 idaho Daily Statesmen, telephoned Lt Srown, CIC Sub«Detachment
  Commander at Sead
 quarters fourth Air Fores, and stated in eubstance:  That he, Avnold, and Capt Guith
 had arrived in Tacomn to investigate the surported flying cise
  explosion on e eure
 fece craft om 21 dune 47,  ‘This investigation was requested and financed by a Ure
 a» Mv Palmer of the Venture Prees, 305 Studie Bldg., 1718 thernen Aveme, ‘vansten,
 Tilincie.

 AGEAT*S WOTRs  See Inclosure 1 and Inclosure 2.  fhe signatare to Inelosure &, Ur.
 Cave Johneon, is that of the editor of the Idaho Daily Statesean
  e  Mire dohason is e
 former Arey Air force officer end from ell indications te a
  very patriotic American.
 On the reesipt of Inclosure 2 at Seadquarters Fourth Air Yoree,
  this officer requested
 the San Pranciseo FGl Offies te cheek the Chicago PRI Offies for Re
  Ae Palmer and the
 Venture Pres,  the return snewer, by telephone, was te the effect that the Chieages
 indices of the FSi, the Shieago Police, and Credit Sureau hed no
  record on Be As
 Pelser or the Venture Preas.

  &-  Lt Srown and Capt bavidson arrived at MeCherd Field during the afternoon
 of Sl duly 47—  They changed from their uniforms to civilian elothing in the alroraft
and, on being queried by Operations as te why they desired transportation te Tacoma,
 they replied they were to sake a apsechs

AGSST*S NOTEs  Thies wns in compliance with par 4, ltr fr Sq ARG,  Pile 0555.61),
¥ Jal 47, gubjs  Investigation of Flying Pisce

Aeoording to Wajor George Sander, Publie information Officer, NeThord Field, the
Tacom Times received an anonymous telephone cell that Arnold and Seith were
  present
in the “Winthrop Setel for the purpose of conducting an investigation on the
  fiying
Giste  The Tacome Times checked and found this te be true, mach to Arnold's end Snith's
curpriges  “t Srown and Capt Devideon did interview Mr. tareld 4, Uehl, Mr. Pred L.
Crisman, in « hotel room in the Winthrop Hotel, Tacoma, Washe, in the presence of
Sr. 4rnold ong Capt Guithe  If notes were taken of this conversation, they were destroyed in the Gircreft aceldente  re Arnold stated to “ajor Jander thet Lt Brows
obtained from tr. Gehl end Mr. Grisman samples of an unidentified substance thet
  sere
identical to those appearing in Inelesures 3 to 7  ‘the samples pictured in Inclosures
5 to 7 were taken by Ur. Arnold from the seme  box thet Dahl and Criewan offered M4.
Grown and from which he obtained his samples,  %/Sg¢t Yatthews, Crew Chief on the
wreeked airereft, upon being interrogated by this officer, stated that he pleced «
heavy cardboard carten in the rear compartment of the B25 thet erashede  ie did not
leek in the box nor heer any comments from 14 Brown
  or Capt Devid
  es to ite
  son  cone
tantae  SY

  Se  The following cammarises what was related by Mre Arnold and Capt Feith to
Wajor Sander as te the substance of the interrogation by Lt Brew and Capt Davideens
Theat on 21 Jun 47 Mr, Sahl wes preceeding scuth of Maury Islend in Mire Gricuan's
beste  Five flying diecs came down out of the clouds and cireled slowly around the
bay, Cropping te an estimated elevation ef 600 feet.  Theses disos appeared round and

  CONFIDENTIAL
W.D.,P.M.G. Form No.  110
flattened similar to @ deflated automobile innertube.  They were judged by Dahl
be Gpproximately 100 feet eoress with a 25 foot opening in the center.  The outer
edge of the object had round portholes and the inner ring hed square windows or
portholes.  The dises wore silent and from hie viewpoint he could see no moans of
propalsions  ne ef these dises eppeared to falter end waver in the air, another of
 these aforementioned five Gises dropped down close te the dise that appeared to
weaver and bumped it, dumping “tons” of the stuff as pictured in inslesure 3 te 7
on his dost, mocking off the handrail, horn, end gencrelly damaging the boat to
the extent of $200.00, and killing Dahl's doge

AGEST*S MOTE:  This officer, in the company of Mejor Sender, voarded the aforemene
tioned bost where it wes docked in the Sacoun harbor
  on 6 Aug 47%  4 hand rail was
miesing, bat the ares where the hand rail wes previously fastened had been painted
over with several conte of paint and was oresked by the weathers  The deck and roof
of the cabin was of a very thin  construction and the eabin further had glass on the
front and eides.  1% is this officer's opinion thet if any of the objeste presented
by Behl a6 eaxples of the material dropped by the flying cise had hit this boat, it
would have certainly been neoessary bo replace the foredeck ani the cabin roof.
 These two arene were very heavily coated with several esate of paint and had deep
weather oracks thet would take evvernl seasons to aequire.

Mire Grisman, who owns the beat and operates a shoreline water patrol for various
business firms, evidently visited the area at “eury Islend to check Dahl's story.
Be te supposed to have steted that he found the material that he presented to Le
Brown and Capt Yewideen in a send pit near where the ineident was supposed to have
eoeurreds  “hile he, Criemn, was at the soene of the incident, a flying disc cane
out of the clouds and behaved in « similar waner as the ones previously described.

AGERT*S HOTS:  The witnessing on two ceensions, in broad daylight, of an object so
 large and clearly visible within several miles of the city ef Tncome certeinly should
heave been seen end reported on by other then Uehl and Crisman. A check we made of
the newspapers on and after 21 Jame end no mention could be found of « mysterious
object appearing over the Tecoma harbors

 Mre Crigsan ie supposed to heve sent sanples of the objects that he picked up in the
 Maury Island gand pit to a friend of hie at the University of Chicage for an analysis
reports  Wo ia reported to have net received the enalysis reporte

 AGZNT*S WOVEs  It te peesible  that the Sire 3, A, Palmer, reference Inclosurs 1 and 2,
wight have come eeross this incident through the University of Chicagos

 The int  ‘tion of ahh eng Crianen by LS Breen was completed about midnight on
Sl daly/l Anguate  14 Brow: and Capt Davidson returned to SeCherd Pisld and prepared
for @ wight flight to Smmilton Fields  the weather was clear with a bright meen
 shininge They departed approximately 0200 hours and crashed at approximately 0230
 hours on 1 August 1947. (See Inclosure &).

  %»  Mm G6 August 47, tuis officer, in the company of Wajor Senders Yethord Field,
ang Mrs Brady, resident agent, Tacom: Fetiersl Surenu of Investigation, attenpted to

  CONFIDENTIAL
W.D.,P.M.G. Form No.  110
\  aa

Gonteot either Hre Dahl or “re Grisman, without success.  Cept Smith end Mr, Arnold
departed the facome aren on 3 August 47, therefore, this officer did not hewe the
@pportumity of conversing with them directly.

AGBHE*S WOR:  A reeord check was made by telephone by Mire Brady with the Seattle
Field Office, FRI, for records on Mre Criewen and Ure Dehli,  The sheok on Sire Crieman
was negative.  The Seattle FSI indleos indicated thet a Hereld Uahl had been charged
with twe ineidente of illegel weering of the uniform and one with theft of national
propertye  1% ould not be determined at the tine whether Nerold A. Yahi, the eudject
im question, and Sareld  Sahl of  the  FRI  indiews, was one  and the  sande

  Se  Mrs Criemmn hed indiested te Capt Smith, irnold, et al, that he was a
forner fighter pilot end held coumiesion se Captain in the Air Reserves

ANEUT'S  BOTs  On & August 47,  thie officer checked the reeorda of  the 406th AAT
RO(RT) and determined that  Fred lL. Crismun was registered with thet Reserve Unit as
Captain, Serial umber 0758951, with residence at 125 loodlend, Sacom, Machingtoms
Primry 0S 1064 and 1063.  Im 1062 he was with the Criminal Investigation Division,
State of Weohington, and previously had been en o1] teehnician with che Union Pacific
Railway.  Criewwn eatered the services in 1042 as an enlisted man and served aa such
for seventeen mouths,  In 1943 he was comissioned on graduation from flying sohool
and served a totel of teentyenine monthes  cheek of the tacoma eity directory was
made on Uerold A,»  Sahl, which indicated his home was at 3903 B. Sobs Sts, telephone:
Preetor 7117.  Sueiness  address was listed es 235 Widdle “aterwayy telephone: Broade
wey 77336

RECOMMENDATION

  le  That mo further investigation be undertaken on this apecifie incident by
Apay Aly  Foree persomel.

  2e  That in view of the reported statements by Mire Crianan, thet consideration
be given te revoke his Air Neserve commission and flying stetus as an undesirable
and unreliable officer.

4 Inches
  le  Photostat, ltr fr KeAsPaleere
  Re  Photestat, telegram fr Dave Johnsons
  Se to Te Photographs, Unidentified Substances
  6»  Pinal Mission Report, Air Kessus Services

W.D.,P.M.G. Form No.  110
  “~n

  SY
toe  .  ~“  i

  EVANSTON,  ILL

  Jaly 22,  1947

  )°
  Boise, Idaho  Ve tix i | ( be
|  Mr.  Kenneth  Arnold

  Dear  Mr. Arnold:
  es

}  Quite obviously you have  been  ribbed  so much you'd like  to  |
  |  forget  the  flying  saucers--but  I'd  sure  like  to  have your
  personal  story,  your  photo,  pio  of  your  plane,  etc,  as  I
  askea  before.  And  you  won't  he made  to  look  silly,  because
  there's more to this  than the  rewspapers  and  the  “experts«  1
  have made of  it.
  |

  Besides  the erticle,  I  heave another propesition,  You  seem  to
  |  get  around  quite  a  bit,  and  if  you  can maks  a trip to  Tacome,
  Washington  at  ¢]1  feasible,  I'd be  willing to pay  expenses  |
  Plus  2  nice amount  to make  it  worth your  while.

  |  I*a  want  you to  see Mr.  Harold  As  Dahl,  P. O.  Box  l5y,  Fern  i
  t  Hill  Station,  Tacoma,  and  Mr. Fred  Le  Crisman,  owner  of  the  j
  Tacoma Harbor  Patrol,  Inc.  Dahl,  and  two  other  seamen,  on  a
  patrol  near Murry Island,  off Tacoma,  saw six discs,  one in
  |  trouble,  witnessed  an  explosion,  saw  falling  stuff  which  fi
  |  smashed their wheelhouse end searchlight snd lended on the
  {
  '  beach,  They  seat  me  samples whioh  Chicago  U  has failed  to  |
  |  analyze.  I  want  a  picture  of  the  beach  and  the  stuff that  \
  landed there  (about twenty tons,  they said).  And I  want  ke
  somebody  who'll  get  the  trath,  to  find out if these boys are  }
  |  on  the  up  and  upe  You  could  do  thet.  I  hope  youwill.  If
  agreeable,  please write and perhaps we oan telk business.  7
  i  I  think  you'd  like  to  prove  this  thing  toog

  Anyway,  I  still want  that  article!

  Sincerely yours,

  Re A  Palner  ‘  ,
  -

  WUA41  PD  i  :

  ~  BOISE IDA JULY 29 1947 255P  “4
  UNION
WESTERN  LT FRANK M BROWN, A-2 (RPT A=2)

  OFFICE 4TH AIRFORCE HAMILTON FIELD CALIF

  VENTURE PRESS 305 STUDIO BLDG 1718 SHERMAN AVE EVANSTON ILL. RA

  PALMER. SENT ARNOLD $200 TO GO TO TACOMA TO INVESTIGATE FLYING

  DISC REPORT THERE. SUGGEST THIS OUT OF LINE FOR PRESENT PUBLIC

  INTEREST IN STORY AND BELIEVE’AS | SUGGESTED ON YOUR VISIT HERE
WESTERN  UNION

  VENTURE PRESS SHOULD BE CHECKED

  DAVE JOHNSON

  305 1718 $200

  308P
  UNION
  WESTERN

’
  Office Memo  -withf2 + UNITED Sla... +OVERNMENT
  To  :  =  DATE:  13-29-47  y

  SUBJECT:  METAL FRAGMENTS ORSERVED AT WEST RINDGE, NEW HAMPSHIRE, JULY 7, 1947
  SECURITY MATTER (X'

  Reference is made to  Boston teletype  to the Bureau dated July 18,  1947,

  Dean John M, Bunker, the  original informant, has  advised that a spectographic
  examination has been completed  of the metal  particles  referred to.  They were
  determined to be of ordinary cast iron which had been subjected to a very
  high degree of heat, The heat caused scales to be formed on the oast iron
  which wore originally thought to  be of  some metallic  alloy.

  The  soientist examining the partioles  conoluded that if  they had come through
  the  air
  from any great altitude in as small pieces as they were found then
  most of the heat would have been taken from them by the time they reached
  the ground end fires would not have resulted,  It is noted they landed
  approximately 700 feet from a railroad track and  inquiries  were conducted by
  MIT to determine whether or not the particles could have been originally a
  part of a liner in a smoke stack or some other part of the steam engine,  These
  inquiries resulted in positive information that the particles did not come from
  a train or locomotive,  Measurements of the four pieces examined revealed
  that they had most  likely been originally all part of one hollow oylinder,
  eight inches in diameter and three sixteenths of ean inch in thickness, It
  was felt that one piece falling from a great height would have still retained
  a good part of its  heat and probably would have  smashed when it hit the  ground,

  A scientist, whom Yean Bunker did not identify by name, recalled that cast
  iron cylinders of similar measurements had been used in New Mexico on
  research work on a guided missile project.  However, this unidentified scientist
  not so conclude to the exclusion of all other possibilities,

  I ns Tateresting to note that the examination at MIT was actually conducted
  %  IF.  INBTU

  (b)(7(0)  who furnished the Boston Office with an informal report similar  .»
  in all major details to that supplied by Dean Bunker above,  The men at MIT
  are gathering through friends all additional pieces of the original cylin  hi
  available,  These will be turned over to the 4oston Office.  No further  i
  examination is being  conducted by MIT and no effort is  being made t
  reconstruct the  original cylinder,  canoyan  #

  Unless advised to the oontrary by August 15,  1947 the’ Boston Office will
  destroy these  specimens,  In the interim they will be transmitted to  the
  Bureau on specific Bureau instructions,  ae f 94  fe  4

  gy  ®
COPIES  DESTROYED  3
 270  Novisises  FY-64
  r\
(b) (7(D)
It is noted that the original 4oston teletype refleoted that this inquiry
was being treated as “secret” matter at MIT. [[REDACT:FOIA-B7D]]  has advised that
the comparatively small number of research scientis ts at MIT during the summer
are all cognizent of the incident and the results of the research. However,
no publicity has been given and it is not anticipated that any will result.
The Sureau's interest is not known to the scientists at MIT.  ‘there has been
no speculation that a guided missile originating in a foreign land landed
in New Hampshire.

As indicated above, unless the Bureau requests specifically further investigative
action, this case is being closed in the Boston Office.

BSG:md
100-20698
  Py
  Was
  ")

FBI BUTTE  8-15-47  5-45 PM  |  vew

  RECTOR, FBI  URGENT  va

FLYING DISCS. ON INSTANT DATE A. CAURIE OF TWIN FALLS, IDAHO, HyWe
INFORMED LOCAL NEWSPAPER THAT COMMUNITY THAT AT ONE PM ON ine. &
LAST, AUGUST THIRTEEN, HE AND TWO SONS BILLIE,  AGE TEN, KEITH, APHRK

AGE EIGHT, SAW AN OBJECT NINE MILES NORTHWEST OF TWIN FALLS, RE@=

SEMBLING FLYING DISC.  URIE STATED THIS OBJECT WAS PROCEEDING @MXX

DOWN SALMON RIVER AT TERRIFIC SPEED ESTIMATED BY HIM AT ONE THOUSAND

MILES PER HOUR.  URIE AND SONS DESCRIBED OBJECT TO NEWSPAPERS AS

TWENTY FEET LONG, TEN FEET WIDE AND TEN FEET THICK, LIGHT SKY BLUE
IN COLOR AND ALSO OBSERVED FLAMES EMANATING FROM SIDES OF OBJECT.

AT TIME URIE AND SONS SAW OBJECT THEY ALL HEARD LOUD SWISH WHEN

OBJECT DISAPPEARED FRIM SIGHT.  CURRENT EFFORTS BEING MADE TO INTER-

VIEW URIE AND SONS PURSUANT TO BUREAU BULLETIN FORTY TWO, SUB DIVISION

B, DATED JULY THIRTY NINETEEN FORTY SEVEN,  BUREAU bagay PROMPTLY |

AND  FULLY  INFORMED  OF  ALL PERTINENT  DEVELOPMENTS.

  BANISTER

END

PLS  ACK  AND  HOLD

=  I]
7-48 PM OK FBI WA Bu
  LS
uynoas, WN8A

  yagau
  : ‘Oftee Men bd Aum + UNITED§ ‘ GOVERNMENT =
  STANDARD YEORM NO.  64

  10°:  The Director  DATE: August ly¢ 197

  FROM  :  Mr.  D.  i

  SUBJECT:

  In connection with your request to be advised as to the facts
  concerning newspaper reports of flying discs in the Portland area and the
  reported conference of army officials  Portland concerning flying dises,
  the Portland Office has advised that Leaveritt G.  hards, aviation
  editor of the. "Oregonian," has stated that Captain William LDavidson
  and Lieutenant Frank }  own of the Fourth AAF Headquarters, San Francisco,
  were in Portland on July 27, 197. While in Portland they interviewed Dick
  “Rankin, an experienced pilot, who had reported that he observed, on June Th,
  a formation of ten flying discs over Bakersfield, California.  Richards added
  hat Davidson and Brown had also inte  ewed the following four experienced
  pilots who were among the first,to  port seeing discs, Kennetk‘Arnold, businessman
  from  Boise, Idaho;  Captain  E. J,MSmith,  a co-pilot; Ralph#6tevens, United Airlines
  and  DavexJohnson,  aviation  editor,  Idaho"Statesman."  In order to determine the
  purpose of these interviews  Richards  contacted  Major  General  Twining of Wright Field,
  Ohio, and from  him  gained  the  impression  that the AAF  instituted  this investigation
  to wash out the disc reports since they are definitely not of AAF origin.

  On F.  y, August 1, the plane in which AAF investigators, Captain
  Davidson and Lieutenant Brown, were flying, crashed at Kelso, Washington and both
  re killed. The wreckage was screened by AAF Intelligence from McChord Field.
  The "Tacoma News Tribune" and through them the United Press put out a story that
  the plane was carrying parts of a dise  which had struck a boat owned by Harold
  Dahl and Fred Chrisman. It has also been inferred that this plane was sabotaged
  to prevent these disc parts from being examined.

  STATUS

  Investigation by the Bureau has reflected that this plane was definitely
  not carrying parts of a disc and there appears to be no substantiation of a sabotage
  charge.

  For your further information there is attached a blind memorandum setting
  forth in more detail the results of the investigation surrounding the above plane
  crash.  No further inquiry is being made in this matter.

  ACTION

  Air Force Intelligence has been advised of the results of our investi-
  er  '  Z  yy  / 645
  RECORDED

  &

COPIES DESTR¢
27TO  NOV 18 1904
2511sar
  40 1d30
  -S'y
  i

ANVI~O
  3A19
  394
  August 14,  19h7

  The  "Tacoma  News Tribune" and through them the United Press put out
 a story that an army  plane which was allegedly  carrying parts  of a dise which
 had struck a boat owned by Harold Dahl and Fred Chrisman had crashed on August
 1, 1947, killing two Air Force Intelligence officers who were interviewing
 persons who were alleged to have seen flying discs.

  Harold A.  hl and Fred Chrisman,  nm interviewed by Bureau Agents,
 advised in a signed statement on August 7, 197, that in the early part of June,
 1947, they picked up some  strange rock f  tions from a gravel pit on Mauri
 Island, Washington.  They  sent a cigar box  of these  formations to one Ray Palmer,
 editor of the Venture magazine in Evanston, Illinois and also editor of the
 Fantasy magazine in Chicago, Illinois.  According to them they requested Palmer
 to make only a chemical analysis of the rock formations.  Palmer then wrote
 asking for additional samples  stating  he  had been unable to analyze the material.
 Dahl and Chrisman ri  ked 1%!  ys after the flying disc stories appeared
 during the latter part of June, Palmer contacted them by telephone saying he would
 pay for an exclusive story if the materials they had sent  him  were fragments of
 a flying disc.  Dahl said he  wrote Palmer a letter in  ch he represented the
 material as being a part  of a flying disc,  and both Dahl and Chrisman admitted
 that this statement was entirely false.

  Dahl and Chrisman th  ‘eceived  mn  neth Arnold of
 Boise, Idaho who requested t  > meet him at the Winthrop  Hotel in Tacoma on
 July 31, 197.  According to  m Arnold called in army intelligence officers
 from Hamilton Field, California and one Captain Emil H. Smith of United Airlines
 of Seattle, Washington to attend this meeting.  Dahl and Chrisman maintained
 they told the intelligence officers Captain Davidson,  Lieutenant Brown,  Kenneth
 Arnold and Emil H. Smith exactly how they  got the  rock formations and that they
 had no connection  with any flying discs.  Dahl and Chrisman stated that they then
 furnished some of  the rock formation to the intelligence officers as samples.

  Captain Davidson and Lieutenant Brown left Tacoma, Washington in a B-25
 to return to Hamilton Field, California about 2:30 A.M. August 1, 197, and were
 killed when their plane cras  at Kelso, ¥  ngton,  after the left engine
 burned out an exhaust stack which in turn caught  the left wing on fire which caused
 it  to break off.  The crew chief and each officer parachuted to safety.

  Ernie Vogel,  an Associated Press wireman at Tacoma advised that two or
 three days after the flying disc story started he  contacted Dahl to check the story

COPIES DESTROYED
270  NOV 18 1964
that  the  Seattle  Post-Intelligencer had received from the Fire Chief at
Harbor, Washington, to  the  effect that Dahl had some flying disc fragments.
At this time Dahl admitted to Vogel that the entire story was false.

  Relative to Arnold,  Dahl and Chrisman stated that he was paid by
Ray Palmer of the Fantasy magazine and possiblg  the Boise "Statesman!
  to cone
to Tacoma and obtain a  story  from them regarding the  flying disc  fragments.

  On July 31 and August 1,  a total of five anonymous  calls were
received by a Tacoma Times  reporter and  the  United Press Wireman at Tacoma
 iving information regarding  the meeting  at  the  Winthrop Hotel over  the disc
 ragments and stating that the B-25 had been shot down or sabotaged which
killed Captain Davidson and Lieutenant Brown,  inferring that this was done
because  the  intelligence officers were  carrying  disc  fragments in their plane.

  Dahl and Chrisman stated that these calls could only  have come from
 hemselves,  Arnold  or  Smith, who,  they  stated,  had a friend on  the  Chicago
Times  and was  possibly selling the  story to  the  Chicago Times  through this
friend.  Dahl and Chrisman denied making these  calls.

  Smith,  upon interview,  stated  that  reporter Lantz  of the  Tacom:
Times and  Morello of  the United  Press office in Tacoma had informed him  that
Arnold had several anonymous  calls and from the  accuracy of  the information
transmitted Smith  believes they were made by either Dahl  or  Chrisman.
  Federal Pireau of Inuestigah

  United States Department of Justice

  ington
  » 1947

  ton  on  A

  atrolling  in  his  boat  nea
  fluttere

  ROLD  DAHL wrote
  fantasti

  2saphed

  ID,  Boi
  i  3  )  1ad previously  made  a  contract for
a story j ep  ing  A  f  come to Tacoma. and check thi  Lory, ab.
related by F  I  E  -

  J  oma,  hington July  30,  1947 and

  is room 502,  Winthrop Hotel,  Tacome  shington.  D
  to attend t  meeting  in.2  H,  United
  also reported  i
this meeting.  D,  Captain
  4 Lieutenant B
  at  various  times
the afternoon and evenin, ees
  Hetetiiaonee Officers
  scussed  the  flyi  dise
story as. related by  CRIS  Captain
DAVIDSON and Lieutenant  the  morning  of  August  1,
1947 to. return to  Hamilton Field,  California  for Air Force Day in a  B-25-and
were’ carrying  ne  of the  reporte2d disc  fra,  The  left engine  on  the
B-25  burned  an  a  oaphe  t  the  left wing afire,  the
wing  subs  B-25 crashed,
killing ¢:  Crew Chief and
  parachuted to  safet  Intelligence Reacees at McChord Field,
Jashington  advised  there  tl On of any  sabotage.  The plane crashed
 t Kelso,  ton  A. M,. August 1, 917.
  anonymous  calls were  re  ved  by a reporter, Tacoma
  the  United Press  Wireman,  Tacoma,  between  11:30  A
  Me, July 31, 1947
  e,  August  2,  1947.  e  first  call was  to a  Taco  Times reporter
ap froainately: 141.230": As Me,  dy 31,  which  the
  ller stated that there was
a meeting  t  ng  place  at  that  time  in  room. 502 of the } inthrop Hotel concerning
the  disc  ees  found  on’: aury Island.  The second call was  received between
  ugust  1,  1947-by the  Tacx  mn  s reporter in
  t  moment  a b:  meeting was taking place
  ODD!s.room number 502, Winthrop Hotel;
  ane officials had stated it was
  the B-25 which crashed was
earryi)  t  McChord
  1 was  received  ugust  1,  1947
  ireman,  Tacom  the.  caller  stated
that the B=-25 which  ¢  Yashington
fragments and  that  the  de  re  Capt  and  Lieutenant
BROWN,  A=2  Intelligence  Officers  at  ifornia,  This  call
was  prior to  the  oe  of  the  dead  A ais autho:  es and

  h Ee call  received
thy e caller  thd  oat  would  verify  the

  he United  Press
  1
  ot  down and.  that
  ifth  phone

  Intelligence
  anonymous  caller, the
  1  carried  seve  al  articles
  sabote  because  of
  admitted

  which  are  being
  August 19,  1947

forwarded  herein.  DAHL and CRISMAN deny, however, that they actually started
  dise* story and their actual  part in the story. . United Airlines pilot,
  tes  that DAHL and  CRIS  on July  31,  1947,  both  related their
  ment story.  Information gathered would indicate that
the anonyiious phone calls were possibly made by  D. CRISMAN in order to build
  dise  story to the point where they could make a profitable sale
  PALMER,  Chicago,  Illinois.  No  facts have  been developed
  mldaetinitely prove that CRISMAN made these calls. However, from all
facts and information gathered,  it appears  he is probably the most likely to
have made the anonymou  ]  The detailed interviews of the persons contacted in regard to this flying disc story are being set out below,

  The  following investi  i  conducted by Special Agent
DAVID A. MacCULLOCH at Tacoma, Washington on August 6, 7, 1947:

  tL, Associated Press  “ireman, Tacoma,  Washington,
  rly part of June, 1947 he  si'requested by the Seattle
  t_Tntelligencer to  ck  on a  story  which  he was  informed  had  been  obtained
  1 the  Fi  Chief  at  Harpe’  shington.  The  story was  supposed  to  have
originated  wi  ED  CI  VOGEL stated that  the  story was  to  the  effect
  »  while patrolling in his  boat near Maury Island,  saw  five or six
  ses,  one of which fluttered toward’ the ground and  finally disintegrated.
  ments  of the disc were reported to  have  showered down on the boat of HAROLD
  ) caetih  some  ze and killing his dog.  Mr. VOGEL stated that he went
  ome  of HAROLD  BAHL on  3903 North Gove,  Tacoma,  Washington to  check with
him on this  flying dise  story.  He  stated that as  best he could  recall,  this
was  just  a few days  after  the  first  flying disc  stories had  appeared  in the  paper
and  was  on a  Sunday  evening,  He  believed  it was  the  early part  of  June.  He
stated that DAHL took him  in  the  kitchen and proceeded to talk about this  flying
disc  story in low muffled  tones.  He  stated that  DAHL acted rather suspicious
and  that  shortly h  vife  came  into  the  kitchen and ¥  in a  considerable  rage,
  L to  admit  that  the  entire  story was  a plain fantasy which he  had
  He  stated  that  after his wife told DAHL to  admit  the  entire  story
was  false,  that DAHL then admitted  that  there was nothing whatever to  the  story

of DAHL's wife, he immediately left and reported to tne\geatele Post Intelligencer
and  it was  an  entire hoax.  VOGEL  stated  that  in  view  ef the  enraged  condition

that.  the  entire  story was  a hoax and  that  they  should  not  print  it  in any way,
He further ‘stated. that he  advised the  Seattle Post  Intelligencer that DAHLwas
a mental case and that nothing which he had  reported should be  carried  as far
as  a news.  story.  VOGEL stated  that  since that  time he had  received repeated
requests from the Boise. Stat  sman req  sting  information as to the  flying disc
ehorscs re eee. ori  ati  RISMAN. and HAROLD DAHL,  VOGEL stated
  such pressure brought  upon him to
  se: € nev  y “and the We  ivised the Boise Statesman that
  story of  seeing the  flying  discs  by  DAF  d  CRISMAN was a complete  fabrication and  e
any information regarding  these reports.  b  stated  that he advised
the Boise  State  n  shortly  before,  or at  ti  in  TH  LD left Boise
to come.  to  Tacoma’  to  check on the  flying  disc  stories with D/  and.  CI  \f
that  ARNOLD should  not  come  as the  entire story. was a  hoax.

  The following information was obtained from Paupetan
4513 South. 7th,  ton, Proctor 8416, a rpporterfor the
Times:

  It  was  the  Tacoma Ti  vaper which  fi  issued  a story
  nd-  subsequent  stories  intim  the  which  crashed  at
  hington on  the early  morning. of August 1, had be  abotaged  or shot
  of the fact  that  it. car: Led flying dise fragments.  <L,  i  stat
  »  July  31,  at  apy  imat  Ly  AS  Mf  =  received an  anonymous
  lich the caller s  ed  t  KENNETH  ‘ARNOLD  a:  rmy Intelligence
officers were  meeting  in  room  50:  t  nthrop Hotel to  check on  the  flying
  s were obte ned on Maury Island,  .LANTZ stated he
  editor and  when he picked  p-the: phone again the
  aat.  the  caller  asked  for BUR’  MURTIE,~  a reporter
on the  Tacc  im  2  W  out  at  the  ti  of the  call,  I  od  at BURT
i  TIE called  ARNOLD at, room  502 in the  Winthrop Hotel andy  dvi  by
ARNOLD  that he could  furnish no information as  he was there on a  Government
mission.  LANTZ  stated that  on Friday,  ust  1,  betwéert 11:00 A. M.  and noon,
he received another phone call for BUR  TIH in which the anonymous caller
stated that he might. have  e  information for him.  LANTZ  ed the caller  if
  vas  not the  s  party  that  had  called  the  previous date  and  he  said yes,
  lier t  related  that  at  that moment  there  was  a  big meeting  in  progress
  s  room,  502,  in the  Winthrop Hotels  that  the. B-25 which crashed  that
  rning in Kelso  was  carrying flying disc fragments from California and  that
  Chord Field  officials had stated the plane was sabotaged or shot down.  The
  ller then hung up after making some  statement to the effect that he was a
  tchboard operator.  LANTZ  stéated that. he went  to the  Winthrop Hotel on Friday
about noon and  found t  there was no male operator on duty.’  He  stated he then
went to. room  502 and  ARNOLD answered the door and that Captain EMIL J.  SMITH,
United  Airlines  pilot,  was  on  the  phone.  L!  ,  stated that  he  heard  SMITH make
a statement  to  the  effect  that  the  information must  be very strictly confidential,
He  stated that  there were one  or two others in the  room besides  SMITH and  ARNOLD,
but  that he  could not identify them.  He  stated that  ARNOLD told  him  he  could
make no statement and that he had attempted to check the story  with various people
on Maury Island with negative results.  He stated that about 3:30 P. M., Friday,
he wrote a story regarding the mysterious informant and called ARNOLD at his
hotel room,  stating that he had written  thigestory and  that  ARNOLD had better

Tacoma, who advised that the story ste spi, LANTZ stated that about
check it.

5:30 P. M.,
  He stated that he talked to

  Friday,  August  1,  an anonymous caller called
  2RELLO, the United Press Wireman,

  MORRELLO, the

  -kh-=
  August.  19,  1947

United Press  Wireman,  stating  t!  Ca ptain DAVIDSO}
  SON and Lieutenant BROWN
were the Intelligence  officers that.  w  i  he  crash. of  the
  that  civilians  and  the sheriff had been |
Amy  i  i  stated the anon;  a  id t  the names
had not i  released yet by the  id tha  his  ify his statements.
PAUL  stated th  W  morning,  Sa  y,  August 2, the Army
verified that the officers killed were  Captai  and Lieutenant
and “two  Ss later verified that they  Arny Intelligence officers,  NTZ
  the anonymous caller  n later contacted TED MORRELLO,  calling
  this time  stated  he  did not call the Tacoma  News
Tribune or the Associated Press and  denied  calling PAULLANTZ  or BURT McMURTIE.
In this call the anonymous caller stated that, "Don't think ITMm doing this for
you."  He then asked if the  story had  been put .on the wire and  when MORRELLO
said yes,  the  caller stated,  "We  this to  get back to: New Jersey."  The
caller further stated that  the  as  shot  down by a 20 msm.  cannon and that
the  ine plane which  ;  J  wrecked  on the  side of Mt.  Rainier,
having been  missi  several  n  also  been  Shot down.  «TI  caller
stated to  0  he  should ‘gi  uch  with a flyer named MORGAN’ with
United Airlines.  wt  stated,  was with  (  i  when they were  sthot at
over Montana.  T  ller-then stated,  "I  s  Taesd
San Francisco."  stated that  he had cheeked with Capt:
United  Airlines who denied |  pilot by the name of }
ever ha’  Wi  .  fontana  A  stated that MORRELLO received another
anonymous  i  ick  c  d  SMITH  would  be  sent  to.
  7
Field on Tuesday and that Saturday One of the men who found fra,
  was to be  flown to Alaska
  had’  been: as
  ed by the Army,
  ts returning to
  t the plane had been
sabotaged or  Z  2  ik  bout  6:00  P,  M.  on Sunday, August 3,
he  contacted  in  E  TH  hi  3027  West Laurelhurst Drive,
Se Bee at y  hi  given  any  story out to the Post
Inte  en  a telegram to call a number
i  2  B cise Statesma  he had
hung up.  1  tha  2  i  ich time
he admitted he had  mer  but  ‘he did not ‘take 2ny of
  i  I  a been with
  Relations Officer from McCh  eld, all agternpan anta about
  TH informed  LANTZ  %  d told the. Army authorities every-
  ‘ing disc  fragments story from the
  )LD left Boise, Idaho and he had left Seattle, Washington.
  tedthat  there were some of  the  supposed disc fragments
  ID's room at the  Winthrop Hotel and that  ¢!  AN and DAHL  had been in
the room  Thursday afternoon.  On Monday PAUL LANTZ stated that he called
  OID DAHL who adv:  + if this were not used  in the paper, he and FRED
  August. 19,  1947

  LANTZ stated that about noon DAHL and
  e DAHL stated that  he and his son had been
exploring a  7  it on Maury Island and found so!
He stated they picked up some of these samples and that Fi  CRISMAN later
saw them and they went back over to Maury Island at which.‘oe additional
  re obtained and that CRISMAN sent these to a friend of his at the
University of Chicago to have analyzed,  They stated that they received a
report and that apparently this friend had asked a newpaperman to find out
where the rock formations were obtained. CRISMAN and DAHL told LANTZ that
sometime after the first. flying disc rE had ppeared, they received a telegram from Trans-Ocean Press from Chic  g infomation on th flying
dise fragments.  ED CRISMAN prabeds t  at ne time in  the
  form  Captain EM,  H and
  verested an  rock romnat dons and they denied
  ARNOLD,

  F  Press Wireman,  Tacoma,  Washington
  d  substanti  y  ame  i  i  a  obtained from PAUL LANTZ,
the Tacoma Times.reporter, regardi  k  r  7  phone calls which he had
received,  He stated furth  that  all he received was. on Friday,
  st 1,  at around 5:3  M..  At this time the caller stated. that the B-25
  h crashed at Kelso,  hington  ¥  carrying disc fragments and that the
  SON  and Lieutenant  officers with
Army A+  t  ige  at  Hamilt  1d and that the fragments were top secret
material,  stated the caller indicated that  when the Army released the names
of the dead  officers it would verify that the information he was furnishing was
correct.  MOF  stated that: the second call he received at’ approximately
6:45 P. M. Friday,  August  1 at  which time  the caller  stated that the  B=25 was
definitely shot down and that if  he contacted Army Intelligence A-2, the man
in charge would not deny it.  BELLO stated he thought the man said to contact sad otee: GUYS, but it  u  ut  i  Colonel  GREGG  who  we  n charge
i  oli  €  arth  i  t  heriff's Office
  civilians had been allow wea near
  » third ceilshe received at 5:30. P.
  }  1g
  ted that one or the men. who had been eonfér: ing
  1 to  ska that  day.  The caller
  the air with a 20 mem.  cannon;
refuse  to furnish any further i

  of
  sattle  Office  was  investigation the  crash
  25 and he was  inf  investigation  was being conducted by
  Seattle  Office.  T  i  related  in a rambling story that he
  picked up s  xi  which  he  had  ded to a friend
of his in the Uni  ity  {  to  have ahalyzed and that later, in some
manner unknow! a to  t  been reported as be.
  nts of

  of  ho
  connected
  J  sation were portions of a
  interview that DAHL and
  N  and fous connection with the flying
disc. story.  ey refused to giveA definite information as to what they said
or had done which caused them to become involved in a flying dise story, but
gave evasive answers and repeatedly stated that they h  nothing to do  with it
and were at a loss to underst  how they became change  vith the flying disc
story  After considerable questioning, they stated that in the early part of
  ey sent to  Ziff-Davis Publishing  ©  any  which published
  t

  Fantasy magazin  go and the Venture magazine in Evanston, Tllinois,
  t]

some rock for  i  which  hi ad  found on Maury Island.  They stated they
sent these formations, asking P.  2 to have them analyzed.  They stated that
later PAL  rote  and asked for more  iples,  advisi he had failed to analyze
the samples.  E  i DAHL stated they have never sent any additional samples
and that the next they  the  rock formations which they had  sent
  IID  DAHL and asked if the rock formations could
hi  DAHL stated he made some remark that they possibly
could have come fro  y-
  dise and that  i  tely sat down  and  wrote
a letter to PALMER  hi  y  in the latter part of June in  which he stated
the mate:  i  e been portions of a f:  disc.  ‘DAHL claimed that he
thought hi  PAIMER over the phone something about being in his boat when
he obtained these rock formations, but stated he could not recall what he had
written 9 PALEMER and claimed that he passed the whole thing off as a joke,
C  {AN  L were questioned  length in an attempt to obtain specific
information as to exactly what  1 one had done with regard to the rock formations.  However, éach stated that the only thing they had done was tell RAY PAIMER
the formations could have come  “i  disc in view of the fact it appeared
‘that's what he wanted them  ;  N  finite information: could be obtained
from either DAHL or  CRIS:  a  ¥  ¢  ifically  done to start the
flying dise  story.

  which was obtained  from CRISMAN and
  ast.19;°
  1

  nitted t  ro  f  no connection with
  forwarded to  th  Bureau  statement
  therefore  being  set  forth herein.

  feu  was held in the
  lursday,
 there a bout Ls

  cked up  Captain
  SMITH at Berry's

 to
 returned  g  at.  ach
 in ARNOID's_  é be tha  RISMAN left
  ri day a fternoon itor

  Company at
  recéntly been
 working  with  ssociated witt
  nis  satrol .anc
  patrolled by” T:
  ¢  Tacoma,
Amy  1  8-951.  During  the  he  was a pilot  and it is believed
presently holds  tes  e Officer's commission

  and Lieut  le Ath AL  Captain ROBERT G y BJORN IN CG, JA-2
Officer, Mc Chord Fie  advised  the  his  vestigation of the crash reflected
  d out  1€  gine which in turn caught the
  also  broke  off  the

  ptain DAVIDSON,
Lieutenant BE  take care of the
airplane.  Crew Chief and the  I  er parachuted to safety, but Captain
DAVIDSON and  Lieutena BROWN were killed.  He stated that their investigation
reflected no  i  ati  £  atever.

  records of the  Winthrop Hotel at Tacoma,
Vi  ington reve  iat  K  OLD;  gi  t  address as Route #1, Mountview Drive, Boise, Idaho  rented. room 502  y  °3¢  M.  until
  record  revez
  n,  Illin

  RNOLD
  called  RO
  The  remainder
  A  record

  supposedly  seen
  routine United
  co-pilot RALPHTSTEVEN
concern:  they took off from Boise,
Idaho  300  degrees  and  while still  climbing
  attention to  some  objects  in the
  out  ten degre
  called a CAA  dj  at Ontario, Oregon

  he  negative,

  NOLD  on
  oth  were

  VIDSO)  1
  sorter JOHN
  on. Thursday,
  lling  fre
  to
 he  CRI  tha
 after receivi.  ph 10n
  0.00  e  ense money
  7:30 P.  M.  HAROLD D.

 shee
  ssion began among  the four men present
  faury Island.  DAHL  professed  reluc~
  al unfortuna te
occurred subsepaper  ieved the entire
incident he  ted that  four or
five day:  ees at eae
home  and  he  canvaontabe y
forget all about everything  t  d seen on or neai Fe airy Issida. Th dad tion
to that  in teen year old  s  d run  away from home
follov  up by me e police som
Montana  reed to tell his  story.
of the flyi  isc  inci  i  <a  after  eé  i  za  promise from

  his Che to ARNOLD a
SMITH th  would  not  ¢  at  least  two we aks«  It
be _noted tha t DAHL  haut  i
  point D/  iL  related. the  i  v  2  has  already been  de  eri
  alle  or  2h.
  es of the  flyingd
  seen» but th
  gone the totottng
  tite  spots.
  1  con
day  to  faury Is  fragments
and  had  at  this  icked up  ith him.  At
this  time  CRISMAN  ying discs hovering
over th  Island but  ared  into  Then. Di  and  CRISi
  nished  telling  told  the  group that  he  had  rlier  in
that.  even ing called Cz  and Lieutenant  BROWN, Army Intelligence
officers and  that  their way to the  Hotel room.  At this point D/
protested  that  he did  not  tell his  story before anyone else and he
was advised by  SM  why didn't  he  just  leave
be  there  when tt  S{ITH  then  left  the  room
went downstairs,  alone.  1 drove  SMITH  back to Boeing Field
near Seattle where  red to pick up his ov m personal car, which he’ did.
The  returrned to  found Captain DAVIDSON  Lieutenant,
  tt

  OLD met.  them  at the door and  seemed
  tain DAVIDSON had just dri  reproduction
  reak dise  at
  dra  "
  dise  which he»  had
  §  states that  shortly after
  AHL's story to  the  Army offi-
  iscussion  with
  Lieutenant
  not to  release  the  story for
  the  tory at  this  time,  BROWN
  gree  not to rel  Following this
  ated  DAHL'  ‘lying  «  Ss over faury
  d  not

  y decided  that
  here BROWN
  for a car
  side  the

  took  from
  r  Island.
  i  them  to  BROWN  .anc  VIDSON  when  th  ny  car  rived  f  McChord
  the  box  of  fr  i  i
departed alone and
  to the  Hot

  NOLD  received  a cz
  during  the  night and it  was
  V:were  flying.  Fol  wing
  1  {  om and  from  the  room  CRISMAN
  McChord Field in  attempt  g  ion about the crash.
  phone from CRISMAN  and spoke  a Colonel GREGG, identifying
  s the  only one  which had taken
  told  him  th  it’  w  ‘ollow—
  and  informed  him  of  the
  BROWN. were believed
  scontinue  his  investigation  of
  intereste  TH then took

  tor ‘of the Chic
  3  A  z  with  RODDY  in
Chicago that shoul  > ever run across any flying , dise  ies which. showed
promise  a  hat  he would  contact.  RODDY  and  thi  :  was  a result
of that agr  in  ortly afterward,  (  n  alled him fron McChord
Field  stating  t!  ilton Field  h  5  ARNOLD,  “SMITH,  CRISMAN
  r adidre Ss  amilton Field for convenience of any Army
  vestig  the  inci  whi  i  t  f  hcomings  After  this  call  the
four mer  t  aurant  ni  During  the  course of this meal SMITH
excused: sae  t  1  J  t  SAC BOBBITT of the Port-
  ith whom he  claims  acquair
  unable to  complete.  the

  10-
  a Mr,
  lephone
  while
  under the

  commu=

  eminent  and
  ortly

the Coffee Shop
 eutenant  BROWN.

  t  he  would
  (Siinday)
norrow  (Sunday)
  letter fror
  of town  for

  and
  South  Tacana
  excused  himself

had  left  in  the  Hote  retur  €

  5  left
  lef  t  *3  t  f ie  «  i  to  Berry's

  t  I  i  o  Seattle,
  writer above
  be.  superfluous.

  nt  to  the  Butte,
  ion only.  Unless
  onsidered closed

  reau,  Captain  R.  G.  BJORNING,;
  gton  advised  at  the  weekly
  Public Relations Officer
  telephone  call from  individual at  Army
  ngton,  c  duri  1 the  Public
  ficer  L  dj  yk  mer  iL  and ¢  fi  which
could be:  publ:  a  ;  I  Captain  BJORNING  further
related that  he  had  ior  ormati  is matte  1  hat  he did
not  handle  it.
 KENNETH ARNOLD to mee

  i

AB L ert G
  Y/C7-
STATE OF WASHINGTON )
  }  ss
COUNTY
  OF KING

  d. E. SMITH, being first duly sworn, on oath,  deposes
and says:

  This is a narrative statement as to what took place in
Tacoma from Thursday, July 31 until Sunday, August 3.

  Thursday I received a telephone call from Tacoma from a
Kenneth Arnold.  The gist of this conversation was that he thought
it would be a good idea for me to come to Tacoma and listen to the
story of two men whose names were Fred Crismon and Harold Dahl.
This Kenneth Arnold I had met two times previous -= once on July 5
at the office of the P.I. in Seattle for a very brief time and the
——, time in Boise, Idaho when I was passing through on one of
my  trips.

  In this conversation with Arnold on the phone, I made the
statement that it would be impossible for me to go over to Tacoma
due to my going out to Salt Lake City the next morning.  He said
that he would fly over from Tacoma and pick me up at Boeing Field.
I agreed to this proposition from Arnold. At 4o'clock I met
Arnold at the Boeing Field and we flew back and landed at Barry's
Airport.  We were picked up at the airport by Fred Crismon, who
drove the two of us into the Winthrop Hotel.  We went up to Room
502 ~~ Crismon, Arnold and myself.

  Fred Crismon put a telephone call into Harold Dahl and
asked him would he come up to the room. A half hour later Harold
Dahl made his appearance. At this time there were four men in the
room -- Crismon, Dahl, Arnold, and myself. Mr. Arnold asked Mr.
Dahl to relate his story as to what took place on June 24+ Mre
Dahl was very hesitant about telling the story to me. Arnold and
Mr. Crismon were already aware of the statements that Dahl had made
previous.  Mr. Dahl made the statement to me that if any statements
he would make relative to his story, if I would keep it confidential
for two weeks, that he felt definitely that I would want to forget
the whole thing. I made the statement to Mr. Dahl that as far as I
was concerned, I would keep any statements he made to me confidential
for at least two weeks.

  Here is Dahl's story:  On June 24 (this date to be checked
later) he was in a boat owned by Fred Crismon, who owns the Harbor
Patrol in Tacoma. They -- Mr. Dahl, a Mr. Knight, and Mr. Dahl's
son age 16, were cruising around Maury Island looking for logs that
had broken away from booms. They were fairly close to shore of
Maury Island when they saw four or five objects in the sky at an
altitude of approximately 1500 feet. He said these objects were
Page #2

100 feet in diameter, circular in shape, and it appeared that
there was a hole in the center of each as he could see the sky
through this hole. He also mentioned that on the inside of the
circle or the hole, that portholes were visible. Their speed was
neglizible as they appeared to hover over a given spote One of
these objects appeared to be in trouble. Another object came
over and appeared to make contact. After making this contact for
approximately two minutes, it rose to its original position.

  At this time the object that appeared to be in trouble
seemed to throw a lot of debris from one of the portholes.  These
objects then disappeared from view. Some of this debris that
landed broke in the wheelhouse of the boat, the spotlight, and
the kleaxons While this debris was falling, my boy and Mr. Knight
got off the boat and hid under some logs. This debris that fell
killed our dog and a sea gull. I asked Mr. Dahl what was done with
the dog. He made the statement they threw the dog into the water.

  This story was told to Mr. Crismon, who the next day
went out to this Island to check on this story. He verified the
fact of the damage to the boat, also to the fact that there appeared
to be quite a few pieces of either rock or metal on the shore. Mr.
Crismon also stated that while he was over there investigating on
Maury Island, he also saw a disk. This disk was of the same shape
and contour as the objects explained by Mr. Dahl.

  At this point Mr. Arnold clarified for me as to the reasons
he was investigating this story. Mr. Arnold stated that he received
a letter from a Mr. Raymond Palmer, supposedly editor of the Venture
Press, Evanston, Illinois, The gist of this letter was that Mr.
Palmer received a letter from Mr. Dahl and Mr. Crismon, also a
package of these fragments that were found on Maury Island. Mrs
Palmer also made the statement in the letter that the Chicago
University failed to analyze these fragments and that would Mr. Arnold
please investigate the story. Mr. Arnold was sent a Western Union
check fox $200.00 to take care of any expense that he might incur
while making this investigation.  j

  Mr, Arnold had made a telephone call to Hamilton Field to
contact a Captain Davidson and a Lieutenant Brown, who were with
A~2 Intelligence at Hamilton Field, asking them would they make a
trip to Tacoma to also listen to this story of Dahl and Crismon.
When Mr. Arnold acquainted me with the fact that he had made this
phone call in front of Mr. Dahl, Mr. Dahl made the statement that
he would not tell this story to anybody in Army Intelligence. I
made the statement to Mr. Dahl that if he felt this way, that he
should not be in the room when these two Intelligence officers
arrived. Mr. Dahl thought this was an excellent idea.
Page #3

  Mr. Dahl, Mr. Crismon, and myself left the hotel room to
go downstairs as Mr. Crismon wanted to get some metal that was in
the back of his car that he had picked up on Maury Island, to
bring back to the hotel roome  Mr. Harold Dahl departed.

  At this time I mde the statement to Mr. Crismon that I
should like to pick up my car in Seattle.  Mr. Crismon drove me to
Boeing Field, Seattle.  After leaving me at Boeing Field, he drove
back to Tacoma and I drove my own car back to Tacoma.  After I had
put my car in the garage at Tacoma, I went up to the Winthrop Hotel
and in the room at that time was Mr. Arnold, Mr. Crismon, and Captain
Davidson from Army Intelligences  Lieutenant Brown was downstairs
getting sandwiches and coffee.  When Lieut. Brown came back, the
stories were again related and Lieut. Brown made a statement that
all the facts of these stories would be held in strictest confidence
until released by Mr. Dahl.

  After Mr. Crismon had told all the facts, relating not
only his own story but that of Mr. Dahl, he asked for the opinion
of both officers as to what they thought.  Lieut. Brown made the
statement that he would like to obtain some of these fragments to
take back to Hamilton Field.

  At this time Capt. Davidson and Lieut. Brown were debating
the thought as to whether to stay over night in Tacoma or leave for
Hamilton Field immediately, as the B-25 they were flying was
supposed to be at Hamilton Field the next day for the Air Show.

  The five of us then left the hotel room and went down to
the hotel lobby where Mr. Brown made a telephone call to McChord
Field asking them to send a driver to pick up Capt. Davidson and
himself. Lieut. Brown came up to me and made the statement that he
and Capt. Davidson were going back to Hamilton Field and that he
would get in touch with me tomorrow and if after I had seen the
fragments on Maury Island, if I thought in my own mind that this
was authentic, they would immediately leave Hamilton Field and
returne I was to hold this statement by Lieut. Brown in the
strictest of confidence from the other group of three (Dahl, Crismon,
and Arnold).

  We then went down to the street where Mr. Crismon drove his
car up in front and took out a box of fragments and gave this box to-
Davidson and Brown. While waiting for the driver from McChord Field,
Lieut. Brown and I discussed Pacific operations and things not pertai.  to this mission.  Capt. Davidson and Lieut. Brown departed at
app:  tely 12:45 A.M.  Mr. Arnold and I went back to our hotel
room after having a midnight snack.
Page #4

  Friday the lst:  At approximately 8 o'clock in the
morning, Mr. Crismon called up our hotel room and acquainted us
with the fact that the B-25 had crashed.  Also that he had called
McChord Field and from information he received also verified the
fact that the two men in the ship were Capt. Davidson and Lieut.
Brown, plus a flight engineer and a hitch-hiker, This left both
Mr. Arnold and myself in a very bad state of concern.  Approximately an hour later Mr. Crismon and Mr. Dahl made their appearance in
the hotel room.  I still wasn't sure that this was the same B-25
that the two Intelligence officers had left in last night.  Mr.
Crismon then again called McChord Field and talked to a Colonel
Gregg and the fact was verified again that the two pilots were
Davidson and Browne

  After an hour or so Mr. Crismon and Mr. Dahl left the
hotel room with a plan in mind of the four of us meeting the next
morning (Saturday) for breakfast and going out to Maury Island.

  That evening (Friday) there was a message for me to call
this particular telephone number that was on the message.  I called
this number and was asked by the party to please call them from a
paystation. This party was a Mr. Lantz, a reporter on the Tacoma
Times. He told me, "I most certainly am doing myself out of a good
story but I thought you ought to know that somebody has been calling
this paper and giving us a blow-by-blow description of all that has
taken place in your room since you arrived." To verify this, Mr.
Lantz repeated back to me discussions that I felt had only been
taking place in our room.

  Mr. Lantz also made the statement that there was a leak
either from the switchboard operator or our room had been tapped.
I asked Mr. Lantz why he was tipping us off with this information.
He made the statement that he didn't mind doing this if in return
that any information that I may let out would be given to him.
After this conversation with Mr. Lantz I went back to our room and
told Mr. Arnold. what took place on the telephone.

  Saturday morning: Mr. Arnold and I met Mr. Dahl and
Fred Crismon for breakfast. We then drove out to the boat to go
to the island. The boat was unserviceable at the time so we went
back to the hotel. Mr. Crismon said that he would call later on
in the day and let us know when the boat would be repaired. That
was the last time I saw Mr. Crismon.

  Approximately 11 o'clock Saturday morning Mr. Crismon
phoned me and made the statement it would be impossible for him to
keep this appointment with mee We were cut off by the switchboard
operator as this was classified as not an emergency call. The
reason we were cut off was due to a strike in all the Tacoma hotels.
Page #5

  Mr. Lantz called up and said if I would call him at
8:30 that evening, he would have some additional  information for
me.  I called Mr. Lantz at  8:30  that evening.  He  told me  that
this anonymous caller had again called  a  Mr. Marillo of the
United Press and said that one of the parties that Mr. Arnold and
I had come down to see was flown to Alaska.  Also he mde  the statement Mr. Smith would be called to Wright Field Tuesday.  This
anonymous caller made the statement to Mr. Marillo that this B-25
was shot down.  Mr. Marillo asked this person calling what his
interest was.  This anonymous caller made a statement - "Don't think
I am doing it for the newspapers.  All I am interested in is seeing
that this information gets back,to New Jersey."

  After I finished the conversation with Mr. Lantz, I went
over to the United Press and talked with Mr. Marillo and had him
read back to me the conversations that he had had with this
anonymous caller.  But no opinions at  this  time were voiced either
by me or Mr. Marillo.

  Sunday morning I called a Major Sander of S-2 McChord
Field and asked him to meet me at the Winthrop Hotel at 11 o'clock.
I met this Major Sander at 11 o'clock and we drove to a small coffee
shop on the Tacoma Highway where this complete story was related to
him by me.  We then drove back to the Winthrop Hotel where Major
Sander was introduced to Mr. Arnold by me and again listened to
Mr. Arnold's story. Mr. Arnold and I departed from the Winthrop
Hotel Sunday afternoon at approximately 4:30.

  This is  to  certify that the foregoing statement was taken
before me, a notary public;  that prior to making said statement,  the
witness was first  sworn to tell the whole  truth and nothing but  the
truth;  that the statement was then reduced to writing and  signed by
me on the  day of August,  1947.

  IN WITNESS WHEREOF I have hereunto set my hand and official
seal the day and year last above written.

  Notary Public in and for the State
  of Washington, residing at Seattle.
  tH
fi  Rr
D  PES  and
 )
Roe

 Ve
  STANDARD
  Form No.6 —*  @  @

  Office ‘Mem randum * UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT
  o  Ls

  RO  ?  » Director, FBI = AIR MAIL  DATE: August 26, 1947
  FROM  >  SAC,  San Francisco

  (  og
  SUBJECT:  ‘REPORTS OF FLYING DISCS

  There are being transmitted herewith to the Bureau photostatic copies
of three reports received from Lieutenant Colonel DONALD=S@PRINGER, A-2, Fourth
Air Force, Hamilton Field, California, involving reported sightings of flying
 discs.  {
  eg

  #

  The Los Angeles Office  is being furnished with a photostatic copy of/
the report of Lieutenant Colonel SPRINGER dated August 18, 1947 concerning the
 investigation conducted at the Muroc Flight Test Base, Muroc, California.

  The  Butte Office  is  being  furnished with a photostatic copy of the
 report of Lieutenant Colonel SPRINGER dated August 20,  1947 which sets forth a
 letter received from Mr. R.  JeMADDEN, Division Plant Engineer, Pacific  Telephone
 and Telegraph Company, Helena, Montana.

  This  office
  is maintaining contact with Lieutenant Colonel SPRINGER
 and will  furnish the
  Bureau with a subsequent report from him concerning the ob-
 servations of Mre RAY A,»SWITZER, Sacramento, California, who has reported
 certain observations which he believes may involve a flying disc at Placerville,
 California, on August 14, 1947.

 HMK :EMB
 Enclosures - 3
 cc Los Angeles (with enclosure)
  Butte (with enclosure)
  =a  ]

  ConTROLLINc OFFICE -  ‘ld.
  PERIOD COVERED
  _
  Case cuassirication Incident
  Sratus or case  Pending

  REASON FOR INVESTIGATION:  Investigation initiated  at request of Air Defense Command
  reference ltr Hq ADC, dtd 7 Jul 47, file D5335.5 ID, subj:  Investigation of Flying Diso,

  On 8 July 1947,  approximately 1000 hours, two incidents occurred in the vicinity
  of Muroc Flight Test  Base.

  No further investigation of these incidents is being considered by this headquarters.

  Disraisution  Cortes
  AAF  2

  ADC  1

  oo  hia  5 one  ag of S,A-f
  it FBI, S.Fe  1  THERMALcisAVESTIGN
  File 44  i  |  w.$. DF  *  SVIce

  ae  AUG 21147  |
\ae  EOE 9 Ei iter raat  cawer  gies  ——  —
  Fe  ). C. $. Form No. 19, whic
  ‘will not be used upon receipt of this revision)  ee
Commanding, “oftic  Muroe  J
Captain Taree age Intel on
  Colonel
time to be pal and
  ieee
enough to be reported  wes noth!
Colonel to make = farther prone: Jus
 STATE OF CALIFORNIA)

 COUNTY OF KERN)  °

  The following is a statement given by Major Richard R. Shoop,
 Office of Chief of Tech. Engineering Division, Muroc Army Air Field,
 Muroc, California, statement given on 11 duly 1947.

  At approximately noon on 8 July 1947, my attention was
  called to an
 object in the air by Colonel Gilkey.  I observed between five (5) ana
 eight (8) miles to the North what appeared to be a thin metalli
  c object.
It appeared to be metallic because the method in which it
  was flying caused
the sun to reflect like an apparently aluminum colored
  surface.  The object
moved from an intermediate altitude  in an oscillating fashion,  almost  to
the surface of the ground and then started climbin
  g again. It  climbed to
a fairly high altitude and moved off slowly
  into the distance.  The object
appeared to be the  size of a pursuit  airplane  but  did not  have the  shape of  a
conventional plane.  The time that the object was in view was approximately
eight (8) minutes.  ‘his sane object was seen by my wife at the same time.

  This statement has been civen froely and voluntarily
  without any threats
or promises under duress.  This  statement  consists of one  (1)  page,  and  is
the truth to the best of my knowledge and belief
  .  I have  initialed all
corrections deemed necessary.

  s/s richard r. shoo
  MAJOR, RICHARD ESHOP, Ac
WITNESS:

s/s_thomas a. momillan
have
  °

  STATE OF CALIFORNIA )

  COUNTY OF KERN )

  The following is  a  stetement given by lst.  Lt.  Joseph C.  ‘cHenry,
  Billeting Officer, Muroc Army Air Field, Muroc, California, statement  |
  given on 11 July 1947, to Mr. Thomas A. McMillan, CIC S/A. this Station.  |

  The following statement concerning the actual observance of what has  )
  been termed as a "flying Dise" or e "flying Saucer" is true and correct and  |
  it will be noted that the above mentioned observance was made by me per-
  sonally while enjoying complete health in mind and body.  |

  On Tuesday 8 July 1947, at approximately nine-thirty A.M. (09:30)
  I was in conversation with personnel in the Post Exchange Office.  My part  I
  of this conversation was as follows:

  "Someone will have to show me one of these Disc before I will  |
  believe it."  |

  Upon leaving the Post Exchange, I went directly to my Office and be-  |
 fore entering heard one of our local aircraft in the traffic pattern.
 Looking up, as I always do I observed the aircraft, and looked slightly
 to the left, whereupon I observed two (2) silver objects of oither a
 spherical or disc-like shape, moving about three hundred (300) miles an
 hour, or perhaps less, at approximately eight thousand (8000)  feet,  heading
 at about three hundred twenty degrees (520°) due north.

  When I first observed these objects I called S/Sgt.  Gerald 5,  Nauman,
 T/set. Joseph Ruvolo and Miss Jannette Marie Scotte who immediately came
 to where I was standing.  I pointed in the direction of the objects and
 asked thom the question "Tell me what you see up there."  Whereupon, all
 the three (3) with sundry coments stated, "They are flying Disc".  To
 further verify my observance I asked them to tell me in what direction the
 objects wore travelinz, without indicating their direction myself, and again,
_ all three (3) in a consistent nature stated thet the objects were moving
 toward Mojave, California.

  I had time to look away several times and renew my vision of the objects
 to make sure that there were not any results of eye strain, or in any nature
 an optical illusion.  The objects in question were not repeat, were not air=
 eraft, the objects could not have been woather balloons released from this
 station, since they were traveling against the prevailing wind, and since
 the speed at which they were traveling end the horizontal direction in which
 they were traveling, disqualified the fact that they were weather balloons.
  After  the  observance of these  phenomenon and hoping that I might have
 time  to  enlist  further witnesses, I  immediately ran into the dispensary to
 get  personnel  who  are  Medical  Officers  to  verify,  for my own curiosity, the
actual  observance  of these objects,  but  by the time I reached the back porch
of the  dispensary,  Mrs.  A.  C.  Naum,  who  is a registered nurse, and about
 sevon (7) other personnel were with me,
  the objects, had by that time, dis-.
appeared,  due  to  the  speed with  which  they were  traveling.  Upon  further
 investigetion,  two  (2)  of us at  the  same time  sighted another object of a
silver spherical  or dise-like nature at epproximately eight
  thousand (8900)
feet, traveling in circles over the North-end.
  I called the objects to th
attention of Mrs. Naum and pointedit
  out to the other personnel standing
  near —
by.  All of us saw the object, with the
  exception of two (2) out of seven (7)
personnel.  All of us looked away from the object severa
  l times to make  A
there was no eye  strain or from permitting the object  to become an optical  —
illusion.

  From my actual observance the objec
  t circled in too tight a circle and
too  severe a plane  to be any aircraft that  I  mow of.  It could not have been
any type  —
  of  bird because  of the  reflection that was created when
  the  object
reached certain altitudes.  ‘The object  could not have been a local weather
balloon for  it  is very impossible that a weather balloo
  n vould stay at the
same  altitude  as long  and  circle  in  such a  consistent  nature as did the
above mentioned object.
  ‘  dev
  tt

  I  am femiliar with the  results  of too constant vision of the  sun or
any bright  object  and  em aware  that  optical  illusions  are possible  and
probable.  I wish  to make this  statement  that the above mentioned obser
  vance
was  thet  of  actual  subject  matter.

  This statement has been given freely and volun
  terily without any threats:
or  promises under  duress.  This  statement  consists  of two  (2)  pages,  end
is the  truth to  the  best of my knowledge and belief.
  I  have  initialed all  —
corrections  deemed necessary.
  ’

  s/s  joseph c. mo hi
  5) tt JOSEPH ooenemy ACt
WITNESS:
  ae
s/s  thomas a. me millan
  THOMAS As MC MILLAN  ae
  .  rea
 STATE OF  CALIFORNIA  )

 COUNTY OF KERN  )

  The following is 9  stetenent given by Ceptein John Pau) Strapp
  ,
 Flight  Test,
  Muroc Army Air Field,  “uroc,  California,  statement given to
 Mr. Thomas A. MeMillan, CIC Agent
  ,  this Stetion,  on 12 August 1947.

  At 11:50 hours,  8  July 1947, while the undersigned was sittin
  g in
 an observation truck located in frea
  #3,  Rogers Dry  Lake,  for the
 purpose  of  observing a P=82  ejection  seat  experiment,  the  following
unfemilierity was observed.
  :

  The undersigned was gazing upwerd toward a format
  ion of two (2)
P-82's and an A-26 aircraft flying at
  20,000 feet,  preparing to carry
out  & seat  ejection experiment,  when  I observed a rounded odject,
white aluminum in color, which at first
  resembled a parachute canopy.
The first impression was that a prema
  ture ejection of the seat and
dummy hed occurred.  ‘This body was ejected at a determined height
  lower
than  20,000  feet,  and  was  falling  at  three  (3)  times  the  rate observed
for  the
  parachute which was ejected thirty
  minutes later. As it fell
it drifted slightly north of due
  west against the prevailing wind,
  toward Mount Wilson.  The speed, horizontal motion could
  not be determined,
but appeared slower than the maxim
  um velocity 50-80 aircraft.
  ie

  As  this object  descended through a  low enouch level to permit  —
observation  of  its  lateral  silhouette,  it  presented a distinct  ovular
outline, with two (2) projection
  s on the upper surfece which might
  have  —
been thick fins or nobs.  These crossed cach other at inter
  vals, sugge:
ing  either  rotetion  or  oscillation  of  slow type.

  No  smoke  flemes,  propeller arks,  engine noise,  or other clasuable (2).
or visible means  of  propulsion were noted.  The  color was  silvery,  re-_
senbling aluminum painted  fabric,  and did not @ppear as dense as @
  e
parachute  canopy.
  i.

  When the object dropped to a level
  such that comes into line of
vision of  the mountain tops, it was lost  to the vision of the observer. —

  It  is estimated that  the  object was in line of vision about
  90
seconds.  Of the  five  (5) people  sitting  in the observation truck, fou
  r
(4) observod this objeet and made remarks about
  it.  These people includes |
  Mr..Leng = Civilien,  Wright Field,  Dayton,  Ohio  i
  (Other names not given)

  The following is my own personal opinions
  about this ‘objects

  1.  I think it was a man-made object,  as evidenced disteintly by
the  outline  and  functional  appearance.
  4

  COND TNO
  WVLik  —_——
e
  e
  —

  r NONNEESEEY
papa  rr  pe  cad  AQ  ohGeo
  ey

  AcE  ED  AVA

  STATE OF CALIFORNIA  )

  COUNTY OF  ERN )

  The  following is a statement given on 14  July 1947,  by Jannette
  Maric  scott,  Secretary to  lst  Lt  J.  ©,  McHenry,  Billeting Officer,
  —
  Muroc  Army Air  Field,  Muroc,  California.

  I  am fully “aware of my Civil end  Constitutional  Rights, and under=
  stand  prior  to making  this  stetement.

  On Tuesday morning 8  July 1947,  at approximately 10:00, while typing
  some  cards,  and  taking  care  of my  routine work,  Lieutenant  Me’
  called me, along with 1/Sgt.  Joseph Ruvolo and S/Sgt. Gerald 5. Nauman,
  to the front of B.0.Q. "A" Bldg.  Pointing up in a direction directly
  above me he asked us to explain whet we saw.  There wero two, silver
  colored dise like dbjects flying toward Mojave,  California, one directly
  back of the other, at a speed of about 300 to 400 miles per hour,
  having
  an altitude of approximately 8000 feet.  I listened carefully for a few
  minutes, and heard no drone, such as should be heard
  from any aircraft.
  T also cast my eyes to another direction and looking
  back to the same
  spot,  I was able  to  distincuish the  same objects  again.  Having assured
  myself thet  there was no eye-strain, I wes convinced these
  objects were
  not weather  balloons  due  to the horizontal  position in which they were
  flying.  Nor could they have been birds of any nature,  due to the de=
  finite reflection from the sun rays.
  a

  4

  Pat
  |

  I have been on this  Sase,  considering an absence of six months,  {
  approximately eizhteen months,  and am familiar with all type  |
  aircraft.
  |
  About
  three or four minutes, after these flying
  objects had nearly  (er
  |
  disappeared, I glanced around and sighte
  d another flying object,  |

  similar to the above mentioned objects.
  s

  This flying object was silver  {
  colored and was in the shape of a dise.
  Unlike the first two this object
  was flying in e ticht circle, neithe
  r losing nor gaining altitude, at
  approximately  eight  thousand  feet,  therefore  I  was  convinced  it  could
  not  have  been a weather balloon,  and because  of the  tight  circle  it could  —
  not  have  been any type aircraft.

  This  statement was given freely and voluntarily
  without threats
  or promises  under  duress.  This  statement  consists  of one  (1)  page, ana
  is the truth to the best of my knowledge and belief.
  I have initialed
  all corrections deemed necessary.

  I  am  of  sound mind and  body,  and  swear  that this  statement  is  true
  and  correct.

  s/s  _jannotte marie scott
  Jannette Marie  Scott
  WITNESSES:
  s/s thomas a. me millen
  pope  mh  Be.
  THOMAS A. 3K  CONFIDEN: aca
STATE OF CALIFORNIA )

COUNTY OF KERN )

  The following is a statement given by S/Sgt. Gerald F. Nauman,
4144th AAFBU, Muroc Army Air Field, Muroc, California, statement given
on 14 July 1947, to 1st Lt. J. ©. Mcllenry, Billeting Officer.

  On the eight of July 1947 at ten o'clock (10:00)  in the morning
I observed personally two (2) flying disc, flying in a north west direction
at an estimated altitude of seven or eight  thousand feet,  traveling at
approximately three or four hundred miles per hour.

  Just a few minutes before this 1 was in the 5illeting Office and
First Lieutenant Joseph ©. Mellenry, called me and two (2) others outside.  He then asked us what we saw.  I sew two (2) objects with my own
eyos, and I am now end was then in perfect  physical condition.  I have
20-20 vision and I am positive these two (2) objects could not have been
Aircraft, weather balloons or birds.  Due to the altitude in which they
were flying,  they gave off a definite reflection from the rays of the sun.

  In addition to these two (2) dise I saw another object a fow
minutes later at the same altitude doing certain maneuvers such as flying
in a tight circle.  The two dise had already disappeared.  This object to
my knowledge of aircraft could not have been an airplane because of the
very tight maneuver it was undergoing.  I have been flying in and heve
been around all types of aircraft since 1943 and never in my life have I
seen anything such as this.  If necessary I cen and will swear to this
statement.  :

  This statement has been given freely and volunterily without any
threats or promises under duress.  This statement consists of one 169)
page, and is the truth to the best of my knowledge and belief.  I  heve
initialed all corrections deemed necessary.

  s/s  t. ce. robinson
  T.  C.  ROBINSON

WITKESS:

s/s thomas a. mc millan
  ee
  TAT
  CAN DIMNDNAITIA
  .
  LP ityiot LlAL  ‘et  A  >
  os
  ne  ME

a

  UNIDENTIFIED OBJECT
  4AF~1208-I
  20 August 1947

  MEMORANDUM FOR THE OFFICER IN  CHARGE:

  1. On 20 August 1947, this agent and Special Agent
  Hubbard
  interviewed Mr. Ray A. Switzer, Insurance Adjus
  tor, at his home, 35431
  David Way, Sacramento,  California,  and he  stated in  substence:  On the
  afternoon of 14 August 1947,  he was driving his automobile from Placer-
  ‘
  ville,  California,  on the Cedar Ravine Road.  Mr. Switser's wife was in
  the  front seat of the automébile and Mrs, Switser's mother
  and the two
  Switzer children were in the back seat of the car. At about
  1600 hours
  they were at a point approximately five miles southw
  est from Placerville
  when Switzer saw a white smoke trail out of the
  corner of his eyes  In
  searching for a rocket ship (P80) he saw an object
  ,  four to six feet in
  length, ten to fourteen inches wide, and of a metal
  color, bright like
  highly polished chromium.  In relation to the travel of the automobile
  the object was first  seen at 1030, and when the object  . reached a
  point at approximately 1200, it was engulfed in
  a puff of dark gray smoke
  about  ten feet  in  diameter.  The object was traveling at a terrific rate
  of speed and seemed to be in @ very shallow dive.
  When the puff of smoke
  appeared,  the  object
  disappeared completély and there were no partic
  les
  seen to have fallen from the smoke.  ‘The point where the ob wasjec  en+
  t
  gulfed in the smoke was about eight hundred
  yards distant (in front of)
  Switser with no possibility of the object being
  hidden from view by vege=  hs
  tation or terrain.  The object appeared rectanguler in shape
  for —
  one  very short period of time it appeared
  to have a top  surface  “us
  very slightly curved.  Mr. Switzer turned to tell his wife about the
  :
  object and found her with her mouth open
  in an effort to say something
  and with her hand in a pointing gestur
  e toward where the object had dis-
  appeared.  The object was not very high in relation
  to the terrain end
  seemed to  be  following the  contour of  a canyon.  Anais.

  2.  Ina separate interview Mre. Switzer concurred
  in the
  obtained from Mr. Switzer with the following
  exceptions:  The smoke
  and the  puff that  engulfed the object  appeared dark gray in eolor and there
  |
  was no change in the  color,  Mrs»  Switzer estimated the object to be abou
  t —
  five feet long and’ about a foot wide with
  the top surface being slightly  —
  curved.  The object  appeared to  be  some larger in front than in the rear,

  AGENT'S NOTES:  At the time this object wns seen,
  the sun was to the Switser's
  back, the sky was clear and the objec
  t gave off a very bright reflection,
  ==
  Mr. Switeer has been connected with the
  field of insurance investigation for
  the last eighteen years and appears to be  |
  a man no  2
  The other passengers of the car did not see the
  ob
  the process of moving to a ranch near Place
  rvill
  will be Box 43, Aukum, Eldorado County, Calif.
  rie  ae
  to meet Mr. Switzer at 1400, 26 Aug 47 at Raffel
  d”  a
  for the purpose of going back over Cedar ai
  Road  taURcRey 1967 point  |
  where the object disappeared.

  Bryden E.  Moon,  Special Agent, 4AF CIC  TAN FRAWEIEC
  CONTDINEN
  BT Apres:
  VM  ANE  Ly  dN  21d  es
  AONE ANTE y:
  "SWINE  Pi  it  vite
  Al

  HEADQUARTERS FOURTH AIR FORCE
  Offiee of the Assistant Chief of Staff, A-2
  Intelligence
  Hamilton Field, California

  4ATDA  20 August 1947
  33305/1208-1

  SUSJECT:  Flying Disc.

  ‘TOs  Special Agent in Charge, FBI, U. S. Devt. of Justice,
  Federal Office 3uilding, Room 422, San Francisco, Calif.

  1. The attached letter wis received by this office from tr.
  Re ve  Division Plant Engineer, Pacific Telephone and Telegraph
  Company, on 15 August 1947.

  2e  No further investigation will be made of this reported inei-
  dent by this headquarters.
Pa

  1 Incl:  Lite Colensi, ese  ki
  As indicated.  AC of S, Ao?  (Z

  foe 23
  AF - @2

  -loy
  Pore.

  SAN FRANCISC
  NOuTeD To
  427 W. 34 Avenue
  Spokane,
  August
  8, 1947

Military Intelligence Division, U.5eA.
MeChord Field, Washington

Gentlemen:

  Following the reading of an eccount of the
Arnold, Boise, Idaho, as published in the Spokesm
of August 7, 1947, the undersigned considered
an observetion of a "flying saucer" would be
  Hi
  visit of ure
  an Review
  the enclosed account
  of interest to you.

  This account has not been given to any
  newspaper or other publication as yet.

  Yours truly,

  /s/ 3s Je Madden
  Re Je MADDEN,
  Division Plant mers
  The Paces Tele & Tele Coe

  |
  FEDERAL BOREAL GeIvESTIGATIO,
  rucan  cess

  AUG 21 1947
  SANFRANCISC®  nip
ee
  gone

  Appreximately ten seconds elapsed |
  :  time Karl reporte  seeing
  d
  the “saucer”, coming over the horizon at high speed from the southwest, (Karl
  first thought it e meteor) and travelling northeasterly, and the bringing of
  es een

  the car to a stop.
eee
  a

  Ag the car came to a stop, Steve,  Karl and Sob, simultaneously, saw the
  followings
  —_—

~

  Direstly ahead, (NeW) 2 to 3 miles distant and approximately 3000 ft.
  above the ground, e bright dise hovering and fluttering in the air.  Descend-

ne

  thie diese was, from the viewpoint of the observers, apparently 3 ft.
  in diameter, ciroular and of no great thickness « approximately 3 or 4 inches.

  The sky was blue with sonttered small clouds, the sun was shining
  brightly and the disc gleamed and shimmered in the bright sumlicht as if
  covered with highly polished nickel.

  After the “dise" disappeared  from vie  the sedan
  w,  ond its oocupantes
  proceeded northwesterly along the road, but could discern no evidence of
  the presence of the “diese” along or adjacent to that thorofare.

  It is to be remembered that the dimensions as stated above were as
  they appeared to the observers some 2 or 3 miles from the "dise" and the
  true dimensions mst

  i—  ine  —_——  ————  -  ee  a  ~  —_—
“_- Office Memorandum * UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Minow.* SAC, San Fr:
  : DIRECTOR  DATE: 9=15.

  SUBJECT:  REPORTS  OF

  letter dated August 26,  1947.  Enclosed is
  ar 9  =  from Lt,  Colonel DONALD L.  SPRINGER,
  aN  »  4th Air Force CIC on

  vations of RAY A.
  d is a letter dated September 10,  1947 from Colonel
  ment  dated September 9,  1947  -

  For  the  informati  f the Burea’
  een  r  interviewed  in  this
  intention to A2 of  ling for publication his detailed account: of
  investigation  of  flying  discs.

  62  38
  DWK,

  RECORDED

  FX-64
oy  ee piece  e  a  ATT TAD
  %  :  MONPTDON Liab

  Office  of  the Assis  »  AW?
  Intelli
  Hamilton  Field,

  4APDA  9  Sente  r
  $35 .5/1208-1

  SUBJECT:  Investigetion  of  Flying  Disc.

  TO:  Special  ¢  in  Charge,  PBI,  U.S.  Department  of  tice,
  Room 422,  Federal  Office  Building,  San  Francisco  ifornia.

  Attached  MOIC  for  your  information.

  1  Inel:
  MOIC, Moon,  dtd 20 Aug 47.
  1030 hours  16 August 1947

Telephone message received from lire Al Neck, City Sditor, Oskland Tribunes

  Ur. Ray Ae Switzer, 5451 David Way, Sacramento 2, Calif, end insurance
oxeoutive with the firm of “oduire end Wallis, of Sacramento, reported the
following incidents

  At 45P.%-
  on August 14, while driving on Cedar Mavine Road, 4 to&
  Lle, Calif, he, soconpanied ty hie wife, odeerved
  “vapor” trail moving from north to souths Closer observation revealed a
  metal’ et fron £00 to 1000 feet altitude moving at a “high
rate of speed", ‘The object appeared to be more “rocket=shaped”
  than disoshapede It appeared to be anproximately 5 feet in length and was “tilted
in e@ sont-circle".  = AG

F  The ebjest struck the cround with a “puff of bleek amoke"” about 100
  low the top of @ hill which was approximately 750 feet ahoad of the
  pfbaiag tai. Ridges dn Anterveniis canyon prevented investi=
gation of the  on where the object wae observed to heve landed.
  odserver in able to identify the location where the object was
al  to lands  6

  Qlre Switzer is @ Univers
  of Oslifornia
  ity graduate, end is personally
imown by menbers of the Orklend Tribune steff. le is a brother-in-law
  of
 Cole Sray of the Marine Hospital of Southern California)
  UNIDENTIFIED OBJECT
  4aP-1208-1  lee
  20 August 1947  Se

  MEMORANDUM FOR THE OFFICER IN CHARGE:

  1.  On 20 August 1947, this agent and Special Agent Hubbard  .
  interviewed lire Key Ae Switzer, Insurance Adjustor, at his home, 3451—
  David Way, Sacremenyo, California, and he stated in substances  On the
  afternoon of 14 August 1947, he was driving his automobile from Placer-
  ville, California, on the Cedar ilavine Road.  Mr. Switzer's wife was in
  the front seat of the automobile and Mrs. Switser's mother and the two
  Switzer children were in the back seat of the car. At about 1600 hours
  they were at a point approximately five miles southwest from Placerville
  when Switger saw a white smoke trail out of the corner of his eyee  In
  searching for a rocket ship (?80) ho saw an object, four to six feet in  —
  length,  ten to fourteen inches wide, end of a metal color, bright like
  highly polished chromi  In relation to the travel of the automobile —
  the object was first seen at 1030, and when the object ag PRN  oe
  point at approximately 1200, it was engulfed in a puff pr  see
  about ten feet in diameter. The object was traveling fie apeo yes
  of speed and seemed to be in a very shallow dives When the puff of smoke
  appeared, the object disappeared completely and there were no particles—
  seen to have fallen from the smoke.  The point where the object was en=
  qulfed in the smoke was about eight hundred yards distant (in front of)
  Switzer with no possibility of the object being hidden from view by vege=
  tation or terrain.  ‘The object appeared rectangular in shape except for
  one very short period of time it appeared to have a top surface that was
  very slightly curved.  Mr. Switzer turned to tell his wife about the
  object and found her with her mouth open in an effort to say
  and with her hand in a pointing gesture toward  the objeot had
  appeared.  ‘the object wae not very high in relat:  to the terrain and
  seemed to be following the contour of a canyon.  4

  2.  Ina separate interview Yrs. Switzer concurred in the inf
  obtained from Mr. Switzer with the following exceptions:  ‘the smoke trail
  and the puff that engulfed the object appeared dark gray in color and
  wes no change in the colors  iirse Switzer estimated the object to be about
  five feet long and about a foot wide with the top surface being sligh'
  curved.  Ihe object appeared to be some larger in front than in the rears

  AGENT'S NOTES:  At the time this object was seen,  the sun was to the  Swi
  back, the sky was clear and the object gave off a very bright  ione
  Mre Switzer has beer connected with the field of insurance invest.  ion
  the  least eighteen years and appears to be a man not desirous of publ:
  The other passengers of the oar did not see the objects  Mre
  the process of moving to a ranch near Placerville,  Calif., and
  will be Box 43, Aukum, Eldorado ounty, Calif.  Arrangements have  been
  to meet Mr. Switzer at 1400, 26 Aug 47 at Raffels Hotel, Placerville,
  for the purpose of going back over Cedar Ravine
  where the object disappeared.

  Bryden & Moon, Speoial Agent, 4AF CIC

  AYNTDT IANNp
eae)
  kese DLJIGIN
  Set ES  Wa  tate
  T SRA AT PEATE  £\
  \ » AE LN baad
  IN  ~~.

  UNIDENTIFIED OBJECT
  44F 1208-1

  Be: On 26 Aucust 47, 3/A Hubbard and this agent contacted Mr. Ray
  Switzer, Insurance Adjustor at tho Saffels Hotel, Plecervillo, Californie.
  After traveling Cedar Ravine road to a point nine miles southeast of
  Plecerville, known as Suck's Sar, Switzer decided thet the place from
  where he had observed the object on 14 Aug 47 was nearer to Plocerville.
  After a thorouch check of the road, Switrer believed the spot where he
  had observed the object to be on the ridre just north of Webber Creok
  where the road breaks over the summit. This point is two miles from the
  Raffele Hotel, Placerville, California, on the Cedar Kavine Hoed. As
  the road epproee!  the summit it curves to the left which would provide
  fan observer from an automobile a sweeping view throuch 40° of the canyon
  ‘and the horizon on the south side of Webber Creek.  This point of observa~
  tion lies 38° 42° 45" North Latitude and 120° 47' 15" West Longitude.
  The elevation at this point is 2,000 feet above  level. the horizon
  from this paint in the south is formed by a  series of mountain peaks which
  ‘lie genere ly through 38° 39’ 45" and which are on the south side of Squaw
  Hollow Creek, a distance of four miles, end ranging in elevation from
  2,300 feet to 2,500 feet above sea level. Switzer was not definite as to
  what part of the field of view he had seen the object and indicated that it
  could have been as far as the horizon. Any object, or particles of an
  Object, that Switzer saw, if on the ground on the field of view, would be
  fn a six square mile eres of wooded, mountainous terrain which is full of
  canyons and revinese

  " AGENT'S WOTES: This arent belicves that Switzer could have seen an eluminum
  gurfaced eonventionel type aircraft which, due to the distance at which he
  observed it, distinguishing features were not seen because of the bri¢ht
  reflection and the short period of observation. The aircraft would have been
  coming from the left as Switzer turned to the left, thereby giving the effect
  of a much creater sped than the object was really travoling. ‘This agent has
  “no explanation as to the snoke trail observed by Switzer. If roconnaisanee
  ie desired of the area to see {f onything can be located on the round, this
  agent  sts that a small type aircraft similar to an L-5, be used in low
  level  ght between the hours of 1100 to 1500. Switzer wis very cooper=
  | ative  and expended much of his oxn time in en effort to be of as much  rvice

  as possible. Switser will communicate with the AC of S, Aew2,  Headquar ters
  _ Fourth Air Force, Hanilton Field, Californie, in the event of any report of
-  airoraft wreckage in the area.

  4.  On 26 Aug 47, a check with Ranger Dixon, State Forest Service,
  Camino, Celifornie, and George B. Younz, Forester, Federal Forest Service,
  Pleeerville, Californie, provided the following information: There has
  been no forest fires or reported aircraft crashes in the area in question
  within the last month.

a Bryden &. Moon, Speciel Agent, 4AF CIC
  :  TANBIDENTIAL
  cE ES aevisin
  )
  ae

  HEADQUARTERS
  Office  of the Assistant  Chief of  5
  Intelligence
  Hamilton  Field,  California

4AFDA  10  September 1947
333.5/1208-1

SUBJECT:  Investigation  of Flyinr  Disc.

10:  Special  Agent  in  Charge,  F3I,  U.  S.  Department  of  Justice,
  Room 422,  Federal Office  Suil  San  Prer  California,

  Atteched  MOIC  for  your  information.

  POR  THE  AC OF  S,  A-2:

1  Incl:
  MOIC, Hubbard, dtd 9 Sep 47.

  Bn  OF  eS GAT
  Uso

  SEP 12 1942
  ORNIA
  4d  TENS

  ASQ Ta ee
  BRYA  NA  BZ K4AYN  2 BRE

  Lar-1208-1
  Incident  *
  9 September 1947

MEMORANDUM  FOR  THE OFFICER  IN  CHARGE:

  wr. Ward L. Stewart, 12h2 Wilvia Street, Berkeley, Calif:  1) was  :
interviewed 3 September 197 at his place of employsent, the  ‘et  Mining
Budliing, University of California, concerning flying ob,  he reported
to have seen on 29 July 1947 while with Captain William H. Ryherd of the  —
415th AAF BU (RT).  Mr. Stewart stat
  in substance
  ed  ti  hewasalstit  —
in the Reserve and that on the 29th of July 1947  after 12 noon he
and Captain Ryherd had just landed fron a routine  fligat when
Captain Ryherd called Mr. Stewart's attention to an unidentified  flying
object that was following a  P-3O aircraft at a terrific rate of speeds
Mr, Stewart estiuated the P-§0 to be flying at approximately 250  miles
per hour on a preliminary approach to landing at Hanilton Field,  In  ir.
Stewart's estimation the  object he sow following the P-80  a  Aj
speed of three to four tines that of the aircraft.  A moment later a
second object appeared and flew a course described as some’  similar
to a fighter aircraft's maneuvers when accompanying heavier  pS, or
left to right movement, over the object first sighted.  ur. Stewart
that this maneuvering continued until the objects were out of sight.
estimted the tine to be acproximately 15 secords, the course ap
120 degrees.  \r. Stewart could not estimate the size of the obj:
actual altitude, though he did not believe them to be beyond six
feet.  Mr, Stewart described the objects as being milky white in
and unlike any conventional type aircraft he had ever seen. When
whether he was finillar with the Navy "Flapjack", Mr. Stewart s  L
he was, and that he was certain the objects he reported seeing were|
this nature,  é

AGWIT'S NOTES:  Mr, Stewart is a former officer of the U.S.  n
pilot of considerable experience.  ur. Stewart does not convey the  in
pression of being the kind of person who would "1  3
objects, nor has he any apparent desire for publicity.  ‘
charge of machine shops at the University of Galifornia, Berkeley,

LESLIE S. HUSBARD, $/A, CIC ADC har
Lt  FBI BUTTE  B-15-47  PM  vew

bP  _pafector, FBI  URGENT
  Or.yIne Discs. ON INSTANT BA@BARNXX DATE, AL WsHAWKINS, COUNTY,
  COMMISSIONER AND EX SHERIFF, TWIN FALLS, IDAHO, AND gOmmmay J. He
  BROWN, IDAHO STATE WAREHOUSE INSPECTOR, SAME COMMUNITY, ADVISED
  THAT ON WEDNESDAY MORNING, AUGUST THIRTEEN LAST, AT APPROXIMATELY
  NINE THIRTY AM WHILE FISHING IN RIVER APPROXIMATELY FORTY MILES
  SOUTHWEST OF TWIN FALLS, IDAHO, IN ISOLATED COUNTRY, THEY SAW
  TWO OBJECTS FLYING THROUGH AIR AT GREAT HEIGHT, WHICH APPREXKX
  APPEARED TO BE DISCS, AND AT SAME TIME HEARD ROAR SIMILAR TO NOISE
  CREATED BY MOTOR TRUCK,  INFORMANTS ADVISED OBJECTS MOVING VERY
  RAPIDLY AND ‘BaAMMRNX THAT THEY EACH APPEARED TO BE APPROXIMATELY S1X
  FEET IN DIAMETER,  OBJECTS QUICKLY DISAPPEARED FROM SIGHT AND HAVE
  NOT BEEN SEEN SINCE .  NO FURTHER DESCRURTION THESE OBJECTS PRESENTLY

  AVAILABLE. FURTHER INVESTIGATION ayftind CONDUCTED BY THIS DIVISION
  PURSUANT TO BUREAU BULLETIN tebe Two, SUB DIVISION B, DATED
  JULY THIRTY NINETEEN FORTY,6KVEN. BUREAU WILL BE PROMPTLY INFORMED
  OF ALL PERTINENT DEVE Widoes
  BANISTER)  A  |
  END

  3]
  HOLD PLS §3/

  7-54 PM OK FBI WA BW
[STANDARD FORM NO. 64  9  b
  if

Office Metin ondum ¢ UNITED $i...  GOVERNMENT
TO  :  DIRECTOR, FBI  DATE: August 28, 1947
  ECO  an  Ve
FROM  :  SAG, SAN FRANCISCO  A?  Q  €

SURJECT:  2
  REPORTS OF FLYING DISCS  ¢
  ATTENTION:  ASSISTANT DIRECTOR D. M.  LADD

  On August 27,  1947, Lt.  Colonel DONALD SPRINGER,  A-2,  Fourth Air
  Force, Hamilton Field,  California, advised that the Area Intelligence Require-
  ments Division Office of the Assistant Chief of Staff,  A-2 Headquarters, re-
  quested that one WILLIAM*RHOADS of Phoenix, Arizona, be completely inter-
  viewed in connection with a report that he had seen on July 7, 1947, what
  he believed were flying discs,  RHOADS is  supposed to have  taken several pic-
  tures of the discs with a 620 Box Camera.

  A previous report of this reported sighting of flying discs was
  forwarded the Bureau on August 8, 1947.

  Colonel SPRINGER has advised that GEORGE F. FUGATE, Jr., an
  intelligence agent of A-2 stationed at Long Bach, California, would arrive
  in Phoenix, Arizona,  on or about September 2,°1947, and would be instructed
  to contact the Phoenix Field Division Office.

  In accordance with Bureau Bulletin No. 42, Series 1947, it is
  felt that an agent from the Phoenix Field Division should interview WILLIAM
  RHOADS at 4333 North 14th Street, Phoenix, if RHOADS has not already been
  interviewed.  Colonel SPRINGER indicated that Mr. FUGATE should,  if possible,
  sit  in on this interview.

  A copy of the report from A-2 dated August 4, 1947, along with three
  photographic prints of the pictures allegedly taken by Mr. RHOADS, is being
  enclosed for the Phoenix Field Division.

  WHR/jo
  62-2938
  2 cc Phoenix (Encl.) (AMSD)

  AIRMAIL SPECIAL DELIVERY
  I

HYNIIS
  Wau)»
  a  *

  -SFANDARD FORM NO. 6&

bux Office Men.......dum + owxrren
  65-477

  Director, FBI  mugust  27,  1947

  ROM  :;  SAC,  Butte

  SUBJECT:

  A  NASHIN  GT ON

  SECURITY  MATTER  - X

  Re  Seattle  tels August  7,  1947,  and  August  12,  1947,  in the above
  captioned  matter.

  KN ETPXARY OLD, Route 1, Mountain View Drive, Boise, Idaho, was inter-
  viewed at  the  Bo:  Resident  Agency,  Boise,  Idaho,  by  SA  JOSEPH  E.  JETTE on
TM dugust 19, 1947.  Mr. ARNOLD advised that he received a letter from RAYMOND A.
  \PALMER, Editor, Venture Press, Evenston, Illinois, dated June 26, 1947, in which
  Mr. PALMER advised that he was  interested in  publishing an  article  in  his  magazine
  concerning the  flying  discs  seen by Mr. ARNOLD  near  Mount Reinier  on  June  24,  1947,
  which  letter  is  being enclosed  to the  Bureau  Mr.  ARNOLD  stated  that  he  did not
  give mich thought to PALMER's  letter until  PAL!  wrote  him again  and  informed
  him that FRED  TRISMAN  end  HAROLD  A.  MAHL of Tacoma, Washington,  had sent him
  fragments of a  flying disc and that he would like him  (ARNOLD) to go to Tacoma,
  Washington,  and  contact  CHRISMAN  and  DAHL to  find  out  if  there was  any truth  in
  their story about  the  disc fragments.  He steted that he  did not answer PALMER's
 ir  letter, but inquired of several friends for their opinion in the matter, and
 Cc  that  they all told him  if  PALMER  desired to  pay his  expenses  to  go to Tacoma,
 E Weshington,  and  look  into  this matter, that they  did not see where he had enything
  © to lose.  He  informed that  he  gave a  talk at the  Boise Ad Club on  July 25,  1947,
  about  the  flying  discs  he  had seen,  and  also  of the request  contained  in  PALIMER's
  B letter to go to Tacoma to investigate  additional  information  regarding the find-
  Bins of diso fragments by CHRISMAN and DAHL.
  32  2  " ARNOLD  advised that following his talk,  he was approached by a  person»)
  who  said  he  kmew both CHRISMAN  and  DAHL and that they were very reliable
  individuals.  He stated  that  after  thinking  it  over, he  called  PALMER  by telephone
  end at which  time  he  informed  PALMER that  he would  contact  CHRISMAN  and  DAHL  end
  investigate the  matter regarding the  dise fregments,  if  PALMER would  send  him
  $200.00 expense money.  He also advised that he received  $200.00 expense money
  from  PALMER  via  Western  Union  the  next  morning.  He  informed  that  he  left  for
  Tacoma,  Washington,  via  his  personal  plane  on  July  30,  1947.  Upon  arriving at
  Pendleton, Oregon, he told his story to ED“BEACH, ChA, Inspector from Portland,
  Oregon, who advised him to go ehead with his  invest Ben act  y  i
  W themed  2  Z—4E4
  He stated that he landed at Barry's Airfort Ib} oor Bild obitsinedya
  room at the Winthrop Hotel.  He informed that he’ then ca  Baisey Aelepone to
  make arrangements to talk to him regerding the are  ba  -  He advised that
  DAHL insisted on coming to the hotel room immedia  n arriving at Mr. ARNOLD's
  hotel room, DAHL stated that he wanted to forget Sere tac
  AEA discs as too meny things
  hed been happening to him, and advised Mr. ARN our  Yn home and forget about
  the discs.  Mr. ARNOLD  stated that he  informed  I thet he wanted to obtain all
  oy
  Se  9 ids
  84

UUNITS TWHYALN:

«GEE  24

  SEINE RE)

  SM 46 tdsy
  la
altunags :
Director, FB+  August 27,  1947

Re:  Flying Discs - Tacoma,  Wn.

of the information aveileble regarding the disc fragments end that he understood
thet DAHL had told the press about the disc fragments, stating there wes nothing
to the story and. that it was a phoney. DAHL immediately replied that his story
was not false or phoney, but that what he had seen and what had happened to him
was so unusual and fantestic that he wanted to forget about the disc fragments.
DAHL then agreed to tell Mr. ARNOLD the following story, providing his name and
the Harbor Patrols would be left outs

  DAHL stated that his dog had been killed and his boy hurt end that
the wheel mount on his harbor patrol boat had been struck by disc fragments,
and thet about twenty ton of this material had fallen on the beach at Meuri
Islend, and into the bey, and that a day after this incident, a man about forty
years of age had contacted him and told him, "I kmow whet you sew at Mauri Island
and I'm telling you in a nice way to forget about it and keep your mouth shut."
DAHL stated thet he had obtained a large number of the fragments and had taken
them home, but that FREDYDRICKMAN, his superior officer, hed told him to send
the fragments to RAYMOND PAL  at Chicago; thet PALMER would analyze the specimens
free of charge.  DAHL continued stating thet on the afternoon of June 21, 1947,
he wes on patrol with his boy, dog, and two seamen near a cove on the east side
of Mauri Islend.  He stated that he looked up through the windshield of the boet
and eat a height of about 1,000 feet, he saw six round circular grey objects
that looked like large inner tubes slightly squashed.  these objects appeared
to be about 100 feet across and in the center was e hole about twenty-five feet.
DAHL said he assumed they were some type of a balloon. The object in the center
was lower than the rest of the other objects, and the other objects were circling
around it.  The object in the center seemed to be descending while the others
followed.  As the objects descended he saw port holes around the inside of the
object and what appeared to be windows.  He stated thet the object in the center
descended to about 500 feet, and that suddenly one of the circling objects  came
down end touched the object in the center and remained in this position for a
few minutes, while the other objects continued to circle above.  The object
which had descended and touched the object in the center and which wes lower,
then  rose  and took  its  place with  the other  objects.

  All of the objects  then  started to rise and what appeared to be newspapers  came out  of the center of the object  in  the middle  of the circling o
Then the sky seemed to rein leva,  the lava coming from the object  in the center
and  L headed  the boat for shore.  He stated  that the  lava  coming  from the
object in the center appeared to be s white metal,  and as  it  fell  into  the water,
clouds of steam rose from the water.  He stated that some of the lava  landed on
the beach.  He also stated that his dog was killed and also a sea gull in addition
to his boy being hurt by the falling lave.  Mr. ARNOLD continued steting that
DAHL had said thet he had teken pictures of the object and thet  if Mr.  ARNOLD
wanted  them, he could have the negatives.  LHL took Mr. AF  to the home of
his secretary that evening end showed him some of the disc fragments he hed
picked up, which were smooth on one side end rough on the other, according  to
 ir. ARNOLD.
  aoe
  irector, FBI
Re:  Flying  Discs  - Tacoma,

  r. ARNOLD  stated he received a telephone call from the press upon
 returning to his hotel room, and that the press wanted to know about the flying
 disc fragments, and he told  them that he was not talking until he had proved
 it.  He stated he did not know how the press ever knew he was in Tacoma or had
 seen

  . ARNOLD informed that at 9:30 A.M. the next morning, July 31, 1947,
 DAHL and CHRISMAN appeared at his hotel room and DAHL again asked him to go home
 and forget about  e@ discs, that his story was not false, but t  he had had
 enough trouble.  DAHL said that his boy had been missed one  morning  and had been
 found at Lust, Montana, waiting on tables in a cafe; that he  did not  know how
 he had  got there and that too many things were happening.  fr. ARNOLD  stated
 that when DAHL and CHRISMAN came to his hotel room, they had an armful of
 fragments, and that CHRISMAN had then informed about how he had seen en object
 resembling those seen by DAHL.  GHRISMAN stated he had taken the patrol boat
 on July 23, 1947, and had  gone to  Mauri Island and had found the beach littered
 with lava.  CHRISMAN stated  he had  looked up and had seen © balloon-like object
 with port holes and windows, which had disappeared into a large cloud.  ARNOLD
 stated that he asked DAHL again to see the pictures of the objects; that DAHL
 had again agreed to show them to him.  fr. ARNOLD informed that he had then
 asked DAHL and CHRISMAN if it would be all right for him to call a friend,
 Captain SMITH, who had also seen some flying discs and let him see the fragments
 and hear Mr. DAHL's story.  DAHL dissented, however, CHRISMAN readily agreed.
 He also stated that  he had placed a call to Lieutenant BROWN  and Ce
 DAVIDSON, Army  intelligence officers at Hamilton Field,  e  ad  ask
 come to his hotel, as they had previously instructed nae to Se cene to them any-
 thing of an unusual  nature or of interest regarding the flying discs.

  He stated he flew to Seattle and got Captain SMITH,  and that Lieutenant
 BROWN and Captain  DAVIDSON had come to his  room about 4:  ir. ARNOLE
 advised that he had asked Lieutenant BROWN  just what he had found out  regarding
 the discs, and Lieutenant BROWN had confidentially informed him that they had
 obtained a picture of a disc, which appeared to be authentic, which picture
 was taken by a man in Phoenix,  Arizona.  The picture, according to Lieutenent
 BROWN, was of a circular object  a  hole in  the center, and of another ob
 that looked like a flying wing.  He stated that when Lieutenant BROWN told him
 this that he immediately thought of the object seen by DAHL.  He stated that
 after hearing DAHL's story, Lieutenant BROWN and Captain DAVIDSON's attitude
 had changed immediately, and that they appeared disinterested.  It was then
 suggested that they all go to Mauri  Islend and look  for the disc fragments.
 Lieutenant BROWN  and Captein DAVIDSON stated that they had to return to Hamilton
 Field immediately.  Mr. ARNOLD  stated that Lieutenant BROWN  and Captain  VIDSON
 were very careful to gather up all of the fragments which had been brought to
 the room by  DAHL and CHRISMAN
Director, FBI  August  27,  1947
Re:  Flying  Discs  - Tecoma,

  ted  that  the  next  morning  he  received  a  call  from  CHRISMAN,

who  told  him  that  Lieutenant  BROWN  and  Vapta  AVIDS  had  been  killed  in  a
B-25 crash.  He stated  he does  not  know  how CHRISM.  kc  N  1  d been  in
the  plane  before  anyone  else.  He  also  stated  that  during  the  above  conference
numerous  telephone  calls  were  received  from  the  press,  wanting  to  know about
the  conference.  He  stated  that  someone  kept  tip  he  pr  off  eas  to what
was  i  on  and  what  was  being  said  deily  verbatim.  le  informed  that  PAUL
LAI  ORELLO,  United  Press  men  at  Tacoma,  appeared  to  know  all  that  took
place  during  the  conference,  and  even  knew of  the  crash  of  the  2nd  those
aboard,  before  the  Army  released  this  information.  Mr.  ARNOLD  informed  that
when  he  received  news  of  the  crash,  that  he  and  Captain  SMITH  fully  expected
to  be  contacted  by  Army  Intelligence,  as  they  were the  last  people  with
Lieutenant  BROW!  and  Captain  DAVIDSON,  however, they  were  never  contacted.

  le  further  stated  that  he  and  Captain  SMITH  went  down  to  the  United
  to  see  what  the  survivors  of  the  cresh  had  informed  about  the  h  and
  RELLO  head  told  them  that  the  mysterious  informant  who  ha  en  calling
  the  B-25  had  not  crashed,  but  had  beens hot  down,  also  that
  10's  Army  informant  hed  said  that  ean  observer  at  Kelso,  Washington,  hi
  the  plane  throw  out  a  landing  flare  after  the  two  survivors  had  jumped
from  the  plane,  and  that  the  plane  had  gone  into  a  steep  dive  and  dove  into  a
hil  e,  and  further  that  one  engine  had  been  on  fire,  but  that  the  fire
appereatus,  protecting  the  engine,  had  failed  to  function.  r. ARNOLD  steted
that  DAHL  then  came  to  see  him and  Captain  ITH  told  them to  go  home  and
forget  about  the  discs,  that  such  things  as  the  B-25  crash  had  been  happening
to  him  all  along.

  Mr.  ARNOLD stated  that  he  then  called  Mr.  PALMER  at  Chicago and  told
him thet  the  deal  was  off  and  that  if  he wanted  h  8  10.00  back,  he  could
have  it;  that  two  men  had  been  killed  and  he was  getting  frightened  of  the
whole  thing.  He  stated  that  PALM®R  informed  him that  it  was  ell  rizh  ith  him
to  keep the  $200.00,  however, he would  send  him  an  additional  check  for  the
trouble  he  had  put  to.  }  RNOLD  advised  that  previous  to  s  telephone  call,
Captain  SMIT  called  his  friend,  MORRIS  RODDY,  of  the  Chic  Times  and  had
told  him  that  he  did  not  have  any  faith  in  Army  ‘ntelligence a  d  RODDY  to
conduct  an  investigation  on  PALMER  and  get  to  the  bottom  of  dise  fantasy)
 r. ARNOLD  also  advised:  thet  previous  to  the  two  above  telephone  calls,  he  had
asked  the  press to  investigate  PALMFR,  as  Army  Intelligence  had  informed  him tr
they  could  not  find  PALMER  and  knew  nothing  concerning  him,  and  appeared not  to
be  interested  in  PAL  who seemed  to  know  more about  the  flying  discs  than
anyone  else.

  r. ARNOLD  stated  2+  he personally thinks  thet  PA  SR's business  is
  somethir  Y  thet  DAHL and  C  SMA  will  do  enything  that
  talk  unless  PALMER  him  to.  Mr.  ARNOLD
  et  to  e  bottom  of  +t  dise  fragm
  ided  to  go  to  Mauri  Island  on

  abe
1947,  however,
to the  boat

office, had stated  h  a1  t  i  ut
his mechanic sho  .  pei  nd they coul
  2d  2  i  r retur:  thet
  land.  inf

  sated

  efforts
  a  few

  advised  t
  with  Major

  complete  story.  Durir  efternoo:
 ajor  SANDE  came  to  the  hotel  room  sora  “eS
  f  some  0

fragments thet  L had brought to  Mr.  Ss room,  the  conference,
were  8  to  ANDEE  Upon  vie  >  fragments  3,  accor

ing  D,  steted thet the:  ,  ine  t  :  the copper mill,
however, before  Major  F  u  rag  in  the room,
  Mr.  r  with  |  Y  LD  thet he
according to
  for  Boise,

  produced  a  letter

  the  Bureau.

to  the  Command
of  the  nine
  enclosed  to

 le stated that he will  I  ower  to  Burea
  >  this
matter.  ie also advised that he t  nt  with  oise
Statesmen.  le stated that th  ise §  3  has never  paid him for any
information he hes  2  h  sincerely believes that
the Boise  98N  is @  H  to  o the bottom of the fl
 jiscs stor}  RN 0!  B  >  4  e above story to Army
 Intelligence  ¢  j  A  S  se,  the exception

 Stat  has  ne
 has  never  approac

 is  not  attemptir
irecto
FEDERAL BUREAU OFINVESTIGATION
  UNITED STATES
  DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

  OFFICIAL BUSINESS

  BUTTE. MONTANA  Encs.  to Bureau
  Re:  Flying Discs
  Butte file 65-477
ENTURE PRESS  JNITED  STATES  POSTAGE

  305  STUDIO  BUILDING

  1718  SHERMAN  AVENUE

  EVANSTON,  ILLINOIS

  Mr. Kenneth Amold,

  Box 387

  Boise,  Idaho
VENTURE PRESS
  305  STUDIO  BUILDING

  1718  SHERMAN  AVENUE

  EVANSTON,  ILLINOIS

  Augst 5, 1947

  Mr.  Kenneth  Arnold,

  Box 387,
  Boise,  Idaho

  Dear Mr. Arnold:

  It  seems that  Mr. Maurice Roddy  of the  Chicago  Times  got  the
  story  from  Mr.  Smith,  because  he  called  me,  told  me  he  was
  running  it.  I  knew only  what  you'd told me over  the  phone.
  Now,  it  seems  the  newspapers  are pestering the  very devil  out
  of all you fellows.  Crisman  wired me for  instructions,
  I  and
  told him to  say nothing ta the newspapers, because he'll look
  silly  if the  army explains this as "meteors" or something like
  that.

  I don't blame you for  being  alarmed,  but  I trust  you've had  no
  trouble  in your  flying  since  then.  Let's  get that  straight--
  there's no horrible plot  infolved.  It's probably true that  the
  two  men killed  were  just  aecidents.  It  could  be true  that  it
  was not  an accident,  but  I  don't think  there  was  any connection
  with the disks,  or  anything of  thet  nature,  nor  is  the  material
  from Murray  Island to blame.

  Certainly  I  don't think you'd suffer  from  completing your  report
  on  your mission,  and  sending  me  your  affidavit.  Also,  you'll
  have  some money coming for that, and no sense to tossing
  thet out
  of the  window.  It is unfortunate that the thing seemed so big
  you had  to call  in  army  intelligence,  but  it  will  take  them  a
  long téme to proceed  tothe point  @'ve  reached inthis  disk my story.
  You  see,  you  aren't  the first to  see then.  They've  been known
  for  nearly  forty  years,  and  I  have  emple  proof of thet.  But
  your  experience was the  first  real  break  toward  a  solution.  Ita
  hate to have you drop  the matter  when  all  remaining to  do  is to
  file your  report with me.

  Crisman  is  willing to  contribute his  share.  I  hope you will  too.
  This  thing wust not be hushed  up and forgotten.  It's much too
  importent  to  the people of America,  if not the  world.  And no
  censorship of the matter  is  legal.  You needn't  feer that  angle.
  You certainly  did  a bang-up  job of  investigation,  also  you wrote
  one  of  the best  articles  about  your June  2h  experience  I've  ever
  seen.  Please  do  the  same  on  this  last  business.  You Gwe  it  to
  those  two men tho  were killed.

  I'd also  like to  know what  developed on those pictures you took
  of those  "dicks", or whatever they weree
In short,  I'd like to have you continue to keep in  contact
with me,  and relay  to me  anything furtlrr  you  learn.

In turn,  I'll  give you  the whole  story,  which I'm just about
ready to break  (not in the newsparers).  And  if it  was as
Gangerous  as  you  seem  to  suspect,  I'm  efraid  I'd have  been
®  corpse  long  agoé

But,  and this  is  all  you need remember,  those disks  are not
red corpaseles  in  your  eyeball,  and they are not  something
we can  forget  about  with  an  ostrich  in  the  sand  ettitude.
we've got to  solve  them,  public hysteria or no.  As  for that
hysteria,  if laughing  is hysterie,  that's  all  the hysteria
I've noticedé

by  all  means,  I want  to thank  you  for the work  you've done,
You  know your  business,  and you handled it  like  e major.
But  I'm hoping you do the easy part now and get that  report
on  paper.

A  check  for  your June  24  article  is  going out  to  yous

  Sincerely  yours,

  ebehus/
  R.  Ae  Palmer
VENTURE PRESS
  305  STUDIO  BUILDING

  1718  SHERMAN  AVENUE

  EVANSTON  LINOIS

  June 26, 1947

  Mr. Kenneth Arnold,
  Boise,  Idaho

  Dear Mr. Arnold:

  I have just read an account in the Chicago Tribume concerning
  an aerial  train composed of at  least 9  units  shaped  like a
  pie-plate and silvery  in color, traveling at  1200 m.p.h.  near
  Mount  Ranier, as witnessed by you while  flying  in the vicinity.

  This  is  quite  important to me,  because  I have  in my  possession
  numerous  independent  confirmations of what you saw,  although none
  in  as  great detail  as your  account.  I  am  interested  in publishing
  an  article  in our magazine,  written  from a personal  account by
  yourself,  and accompanied by pix  of yourself,  plane,  and rough
  sketches by yourself,  of what you  saw.

  If  you  care to do  this  for me,  I am prepared to pay our usual
  rates of 2¢ perword,  plus $5.00 for each photograph you  can
  provide, or  for each sketch which  can be used by our art  staff
  to  illustrate the  artiole.

  Included in this material, we'd like a short biographical
  sketch of yourself as  “author background" material,  The
  article would appear  under your  by-line,

  If you are not interested,  I  wuld at least  appreciate a
  letter  from you,  confirming the  newspaper  story.

  Very truly yours,  5

  Raymond A.  Palmer
  Editor, The  Venture  Press

  In  your  reply, please  use airmail.
  os,
  Faved Tiel
  iw  p-
  =)  actly

  eg oe ee
  /  GS ther  Sipe ~aee fe
  iz  FEES] Melle EG

  “
  res

Ma  Die  ea  yi
  RETURN RECEIPT

  Received from the Postmaster the Registered or Insured Article, the original
number of which appears on the face of this Card.

Date of delivery .  oy 194.7
  OVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE  16—12421
Post Office
  4
  Department  pa
  POUALTY FOR PRIVATE
  USE To AVOID
  Dial
  PAYMENT
  OF POST
  ‘eorh
  o
  OFFICIAL BUSINESS  ps7  sIMARK OF
  Brice

  |

  —

R turn to...  C22te
ye  re  (wamg-of Aunoer)
 or Pael Ofee Bot} a ZE
 Street and  Number,  .

  REGISTERED ARTICLE

No  Ler  ees
  INSURED PARCEL

ops Te,
 FBI  SEATTLE  8-14-47

 DIRECTOR FBI  ROUTINE  )  /

 BRUCE )ARMSTRONG. | Me Asef NICHOLS. “FLYING DISCS  INTERNAL SECURTTY 54 Ho,
 NEWSPAPER SEATTLE POST INTELLIGENCER CARRIED ARTICLE ON AUGUST  hi
 TWELVE  OF  REPORT  OF  FLYING  DISCS  SEEN  BY  ONE  BRUCE  ARMSTRONG  OF

 BOEING  AIRCRAFT  COMPANY,  AND  M.  SHOLS,  ONE  ONE  TWO  FIVE,  SOUTH

 WEST  ONE  HUNDRED  AND  SECOND STREET,  SEATTLE.  INVESTIGATION

 SIGHTING  BY  ARMSTRONG  REVEALS  OBJECT  TO  HAVE  BEEN  PIECE  OF

 PAPER  WHICH  HAD  BEEN  SEEN  BY  CONTROL  TOWER  AT BOEING  FIELD.  IN-

) VESTIGATION  O&  SIGHTING  BY  M.  A.  NICHOLS  INDICATES OBJECT  WAS

  WEATHER BALLON. LETTER TO FOLLOW.  bA nh BER, ¥  ?

  WILCOX

 A.AND  H_PLS
  /

 S-19  PM  OK  FBI  W
  Aug 74947

  TELETYPE

 WASHINGTON  17  FROM  PHILADELPHIA

_-®IRECTOR  FBI  URGENT
  /  “

T¥LYING OBJECT REPORTED OV  PHILA.  AUGUST  SIX,

 SABOTAGE.  THE  PH{ILADELPHIA  INQUIR

  FORTY  SEVEN.  ED  AS

  SUCH  INTERVIE\  BY  PHILA.  OFFICE,  AND  SUBSTANTIALLY

  RNISHED  FOLLOWING  INFORMATION.  AUGUST  SIX,

 NINETEEN  FORTY  SEVEN,  A  BLUIS H  WHITE  FLAMING  OB.  WAS  OBSE}

 A  HEIGHT  OF  ONE  THOUSIRex  THOU  PHILADELPH tA

 PROCEEDING  FROM  A  NORTHEAS  ERLY
  PERLY  T
  TO  DIRECTION.

 THIS  OBJECT  LEFT  A  @@RRE  TRAIL  OF  §

  HISSING  OR  BUZZING  SO

  OBJECT.
  >EOPLE  OBSERV

  PEOPLE  OBSE}

  NOT BELIEVE  ABOVE  E MENTIONED OBJECT eal PROPELLED PLANE
  M
  2  a

 SINCE  THE  ACCOMPANYING  NOT  AS  LOUD  AS

 PROPELLED  PLA  OBJECT  T!

 END  PAGE  0
fus 8  9 56 ee

  et ® gecutTM
  se

  NTR.
  itor oF +  aly

  ig  |

  Langer
PAGE  TWO

ABOUT  FOUR  HUNDRED  TO  FIVE

MADE  BY  ARMY  AND  NAVY  INTELLIGENC

OF  THE  PHILA.  OFFICE  TO DE  ARE  DOING

ANY  EXPERIMENTAL  W  1  VICINITY  OF  PHILA.

THEY  WILL  ADVI

HOLD  PLS
CU? AM  5.37 8 Aun

 JUSTIL  OF DEPT.  .S.
  TOR  ice  tE GT
  z  .oos  ‘
  j Office Memorandum + ontrep stasis. sOVERNMENT
  65-480
  #  TO  :  Digpctor FBI
  py &  DATE:  August 20,  1947

  FROM 12) SAC Butte  Ms
  MS 4,"FLYING DISCS
  susfact:
  bee
  Refer teletype to the Bureau dated August 15,  1947,  )

  Enclosed please find the newspaper account carried by the  Twin Falls,
  {  Idého "Times News" on August 15, together with a sheet of paper on which
  As Co
  attempted to sketch his impressions of the instrument which he claims to ~
  7  Shave  seene  J

  Concerning URIE's sketches, it may be noted that he believed the
  rolled outer edge which he attempted to create in his drawing to have been about
  a foot through,  URIE likewise believed that the tubing or exhaust flame which
  he and his sons claim to have seen was about a foot through and extended at
  least to the back end of the device.  The flame did not appear to taper off nor
  to widen out toward the back.

  BILLY  and  stated that they could see a knot on the  side of
  the device fran  which  flams were shooting,
  and that they could see day-
  light between the exhaust flame and the side of the device,  The flames did not
  leave any smoke or odor.

  a  The URIE boys thought that the "side view" sketch should show that
  # the device was more sharply angled from bottom to top, while URIE himself
  © thought that it was more streamlined and curved,  URIE said that the instru-  tt
  E  ment came to a pointed or rounded top.  DEFERRED
  Toon Di

  hi  In his notations, URIE mistakenly said tht he had seen it on Thurs-
  8  day.  During interview, he  stated that it actually had been on Wednesday,
  =  _  August 13,  1947, when he and his  sons saw the contrivance about 1:00 Pe Me
  Ry

  \  URIE explained that he had sent his boys to the river to get some
  rope from his boat.  When he thought they were overdue, he went outside his
W/  tool shed to look for them,  He noticed them about 300 feet away looking in
  the sky and he glanced up to see what he called the flying disc.  He said he
  could only see  it for a moment before it disappeared behind a hill which
  obscured his view.

  URIE further stated that the contrivance was about seventy-five
  feet in the air,  URIE resides in the depths of the Snake River  Canyon, which
  is about four hundred  feet deep and twelve hundred feet across at that place.
  According to his account, the contrivance was about three hundred feet below
  the rim of the can;  and he saw it against the steep walls of the canyon on
  the far side.  He,  iribed  its color as sky blue and stated that he doubted
  if it could be  /agattist the sky.  He  likewise said that it was purely by
  wit  Tt did not spin like
  a to  R

  INDEXED

  EX of  ——_
BT 65-480
  6
  gy  «

  As the machine went by the URIE place,  the  trees over which it almost
directly passed (Morman Poplars) did not just bend with the wind as if a plene
had gone by, but, in URIE's words, “spun around on top as if they were ina
vacuum,"

  KEITH URIE, eight years of age, said he first saw the machine coming
down the canyon, heading from east to west and following the contours of the
ground,  BILLY, age ten, saw it almost immediately,  Both watched it fly out
of sight behind a tree in a matter of moments,  They said they then ran to
their Father and learned that he too had seen the machine,

  URIE seemed completely sincere about the incident.  He said his wife
and daughter were in the house at the time and had not seen the machine,  He
questioned his brother, who also lives in the canyon, but his brother had been
eating at the time and had seen nothing.  URIE and his two boys mintained
that they had never before seen one of the discs,  URIE, when interviewed, appeared to be a sober, middleeaged man.

  JOH EROSNAN, the "Times News" reporter who originally furnished
Special Agents with information about the incident, likewise stated that URIE
appeared completely sincere about the machines  a

  _- Wo further attempt was made to locate L. wt. \namcrs, inasmuch as
Je He)  BROWN, who was with HAWKINS at the tims, was interviewed.  BROWN's naw
was  withheld fran the newspaper because HAWKINS and BROWN were fishing at Sale
mon dam while BROWN was supposed to have been working in Twin Falls,

  BROWN said simply that he and HAWKINS could hear a roar,  They looked
up and could see two instruments flying at a great height, which BROWN mentioned
might have been between four thousand and six thousand feet.  However, he said
he had no idea how large the  devices were and consequently, they may have been
several miles away, He said thet he and HAWKINS were satisfied they had seen
somthing and they were very doubtful that they had seen two planese

RUGsFOtsS

Enc. (2)
ENCLOSURE
  TWIN FALLS, IDAHO, FRIDAY, AUGUST 15, 1947

  Heads Up, Folks! The Dises Are Flying A

  za.Sipe  view
  Gap
  BOTTOM VIEW  END VIEW
  something new
  ‘This is an artist's conception of the flying disc that A. C. Urie saw | sides, and could well be the inspiration for (Drawing  women’s

 sweeping through Snake river canyon six miles west of Blue Lakes | hats, such as a “flying saucer” creation.  by Vic Goertzen-

 ranch, It seemed to be powered by jets emitting a fiery glow on both | staff engraving)
  *®  *  8  &

 Flying Saucer Reported F ashing Down Canyon
  At 1,000 Miles Per Hour; Two Others Are Seen
  scription of the flying discs seen by  come concerned  about what was de~
  By JOHN BROSNAN  the fast-flying objects the nation
  Just as Magic Valley and the
nation were starting to let go of
  as yet produced.
  ‘The flying saucer Urie saw
  him and his son, Keith, 8, and Billy,
  10
  “T obtained a close-up view of
  |  laying them, and had walked down
  toward the river to see if they were
  all right
lampposts  after  reeling  under  a  imming along through Snake ri
  the flying saucer as it passed by the  “T had a side view at a  distance
welter of flying saucer reports, two  canyon at a height of about 7:
  of about 300 feet  and almost on a
more Twin Falls county men re-  feet at 1 p. m. Wednesday. At 9:30 trout farm at 1 p.m. Aug. 13 going
  level with the thi  Urie convived speculation on the mystery  a, m. the same day, L. W. Hawk- down Snake river canyon at a height  Keith
  of about 75  feet from  the canyon  tinued. “Two of my boys,
with vivid descriptions of discs they  ins,  in  Falls  county  comm:
  and Billy, were below me  and they
  sioner  and  former  county  sheriff  floor. I would estimate the speed
saw.
  at about 1,000 miles per hour.”  also  saw  it  at  about  a  45-degree
  From  A.  C.  Urie,  who operates  from Filer, also saw two circular
  soaring  along  at  a  great  Urie explained that the incident  angle, They both got a bottom and
the Auger Falls Trout farm six  objects
  a side view, and we were all lool
  height near Salmon dam 40 miles  occurred while the two boys were
miles west of Blue Lakes ranch in  ing at it from the south side of the
  southwest of Twin Falls.  coming across the river from the
  ake river canyon, came perhaps  be-
  eye-witness  north side in a boat. He had  (Continued  on Page 8, Column  6)
  F most detailed account of one of  Here  is  Urie's  de-
  TIMES-NEWS, TWIN FALLS, IDAHO

  k
  our Parleys
  Twin Falls News in Brief
  Set on Cassia
  To Visit Here  Marriage  License
  Aurelia
  ing here soon
  Stark,  Portland,
  to visit
  Ore.,
  Mr. and
  is  Kenneth
  Pearson, both
  Miracle
  o!
  and
  Twin Falls, received
  Esta  Jay
  School Pla
  Phil A. Snow.  a marriage license  (From  Page  One)

  courthouse.  14,  Almo;  24,  Hazel;,
  ,  50,
  Springdale
  31,
  ; View,
  A_  daughter  was  born  Thursday  Rector  Returns  Moulton.
  to  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Rudy  Wageman,
  The  Rev.  E.  Leslie Ro  The  above  districts  would  be
  .  TEC  or  of
  made  | Filer,  at  the  Twin  Falls county  corporated  into
  ed would elect five trustees. ‘truss
  one  district
  special  the Episcopal Church of  the  4  cen=
  general  hospital  maternity  home.
  sion,  and  Mrs.  Rolls  return
  t with
  | Return From College
  districts  would  be  divided  thus
  iety  of  Thursday  from  Tacoma  Wash
  | District  1,  all of  Burley  school  di
  >  resist |  Mr. and Mrs.  Robert Van Engelen  where they spent  their vacation.
  trict  west  of  Overland  and  the Bur‘
  and Fred  Van Engelen  have r  ley-Oakley  highway;  district  2,  all
  turned from Moscow where they at-  Return  to  Kansas  City
  of  Burley  school  district  east of |§
  |tended the summer  session  of  the  E.  1.  Hoffman  and  his  s  Overland  and  the  Burley-Oakley|4
  University of Idaho.  |Eugene,  with  Lucille  Gahr,  has  r
  ay

  hway; district 3, present districts | ¢
  turned  to Kansas City  after  ng}
  visit
  of  Declo,  Albion,  Springdale  and|
  BREV  Mr.  and  M  H.  B.  Hogue  Mi TS.|  View;  district  4,  Oakley,
  |§  Basin,
  Miss  Povey Visits  is his mother,
  | Hogue  Moulton;  and  district 5,  Heglar,
  |
  Kathleen  Povey,  former  Spanish
  Malta,  Elba,  Sublett, Almo, Brid;
  instructor at Twin Falls high school,/On  Trip  to  East
  |and  all  present  unorganized  te
  is  visiting  here  this  week.  She  now]  ypre
  John Hawes and her nephew,  tory.
  teaches Spanish in a high school at}  5.¢  Holand
  have  gone  to  Bost  mn
  | South Pasadena,  Calif.  ana Hew wh
  k City  on  a  two-w  's

  Auto Recovered  |
  vacation  to  vi
  Spiked
  fons  | Funeral Held for
  | Infant at Wendell|
  Clifford J.  Roth, 529 Fifth avenue|
  Visiting  Sister
  north,  reported  the  theft  of  his
  automobile  from  near  the  Legion}  Mrs.  Robert  Swanson,  Denv er,
  Colo.,
  |  WENDELL, Aug. 15 — Graveside|
  hall  to Twin Falls  police  at  5:42  p.  is  visiting  her  sister,  Mr
  services were held Thursday eve-|
  m.  Thursday  and  18  minutes  later  Kenr  Kail.  Mrs.  Swanson  is  a
  ning for Marian Kay Ems,  Wendell
  reported he  had  recovered  the  ve-  f  ‘esident of  Rupert.
  The  infant  daughter  of  Mr.  and
  hicle.
  Mrs.  Kenneth  Ems  died  at  birth
  fields  in  Thursday  morning
  Visits  Schuberts  Ax plication  for a  permit  to bu ld |
  irh  as  25  Agnes  Park, »|@  of |  She is survived  by
  Schubert,  Monterey  12  by  20-foot  private  garage  her  parents;  a
  Calif.,  is  visiting her  brother  and) same  cons  ruction Was  ed: Friday
  brother,
  Kenneth  Ray,  +s
  sos  hage  is  done  to  th  sister-in-law,  and a sister, Janet LaRae,
  Mr. and  Mrs.  Mel|in the office of the city clerk by  5.  Burial
 pods, he explained,  as  the  insects  Schubert,  this  month.  Miss Schu-|Lola M.  in  the  Wendell
  Vazquez, 350 Elm. stre et,  cemetery  was under
 burrow into a pod at  night, eat into  bert, former art instructor at Twin | who  the  direction
  estimated  the cost  at  $400.  of  the  Frazier  mor-
  ne  seeds,  drop  to  the  ground  the  Falls high school, now teaches in  nosis  | tuary.
 next  day,  and  enter  another  pod |  California.

  Henking May Try
  | Moose to  Meet
 the  next  night.  He  recommended
  |  —<  Members of the fellowship deg: ree
Juse  of  five  per  cent  DDT  dust  Attend  Funeral  of  the  Moose  lodge  will  meet
  at

jat  the  r  of  20  pounds  per  acre,  Out-of-town persons who attend-| 12:30 p. m.  Sunday at the Mo

  Run Tests Friday
 and said  e
  the first application should
  ed the Donald Spencer funeral in-| all,  officials  announced
 be on  now.  Friday.
  |clude Mrs. George Robbins, Ingle-| Refreshments  will be  sei
  Next  speaker  was  W.  D.  Hay  of
  ved  b}
  wood,  Calif.;  Mr. and  Mrs.  Clifton
  | women of the Moose.  WENDOVER,  Utah,  Aug.  15  (P)—
 the PMA  federal-state seed  labora-  Adams,  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Ernie  Vidun,  |  rae  Ab  Jenkins,  holder  of  most  of  the
 tory  at  Sacramento,  Calif.  He  dis-  Wayne  and  Dorothy  Adams,  and  world’s land  speed  records
  Harry Piper, 71,
| cussed the movement of bean seed  for  dis-
  Mrs.  Norma  Lou  Veneman,  all  Po-  tances of 50 miles or more, may be-
 in  interstate  commerce,  how  the  catello;  Mrs.  Sarah  Adams,  Mrs.|  gin late tomorrow test runs in prep-

  Claimed by Death
seed should be labeled, how to name
  Will Severe, Mr. and Mrs. Lyman|  aration for
different varieties, and the validity  his newest record as-
  Adams, Mr. and Mrs. ‘Orvil Adams,  sault
of name assignments
  Cai
  Mr.  and  Mrs.
  ckburn, of the Idaho Crop | and Mrs. Ellsworth Adams, all Oak-| Piper, 71, Buhl plumber since:
  Sylvester
  1926,
  |
  Howard  Adams,  Mr.  BUHL,  Aug.  15—Ha:
  Bud Winfield of Los Angeles, de-
Improvement  association,  :|signer  of  the  low-slung
  discussed  ley;  Mrs.  Judson  Tolman, Logan,| died at 9:20 p.  m.  Thurs  y  at  the
  Mobil  ‘spethe  general  organization  of  that  cial  that  Jenkins  will  drive,  pro-
  Utah,  and  Mrs.  Alice  Miller, Salt|Twin  Falls  county  hosgroup and  spoke of its measures for | Lake  nounced  the car  “ready to go.”
  City.  pital.  from  com  lications  following
seed  certification.  Phe runs  will be made on an 111%
  an  rca bdaerge
  ‘The  delegates  then  adjourned  to  mile  circular track on the Bonne-

  William Munger,  =  d
  yew  ir.  Piper  was  born.  June  6,  1875,
Clear  Lakes  resort  for  a  fish  fry.  in
  ville  salt  flat.  120  miles  west  %
  Emporia,  Kans.,  and
  Idaho
  came
  % | Salt Lake City. Jenkins, former S
  in  1926.

  38, Passes Here  He  is
  |Lake  City  mayor, hoped  to  make
  survived  b;  his  wife,  Mrs
  | Nettie
  | his official runs eari
  Clussman  Pir
  thr ee
  William H.  Munger, 38, 305 Locust | daughters, Mrs. Harry Kinter, Buhl:
  street north, died at 11 a.  m. Friday} Mrs. James  F.  Perchal,  Twin Fal
FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION
  UNITED STATES
  DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

  Oe)  OFFICIAL, BUSINESS

  ENCLOSURE TO BUREAU

  Butte File 65-480
‘Saucer’ Seen
  Flying Down
  Snake Gorge
  (From  Page  One)
river facing  toward the  north.  ‘The
boys  saw  it  coming  about  half  a
mile up the canyon, and we all lost
sight of it in  less than  a mile.”
  While  the  impression  was.  still
vivid  in  their  minds,  the  three got
together and made rough sketches
of what they had seen. These, in
turn, were the basis for the artist’s
conception of the strange affair by
Vie Goertzen of Twin Falls for the
Times-News.
  t was all one color—sort of a
 light sky blue with a red, tubular
 fiery glow at the side of the top or
<nood,” Urie continued.
  the  canyon  floor  is  rough  at
 hatqparticular  point,  and  it  rode
‘up and down over the hills and hollows  at  a  speed  indicating  some
  pe of control faster than the
  flexes of man.  It 1s my opinion
that it is guided by instruments and
must be  powered by atomic  ener;
as  it made  ‘very  little noise—just  a
s-w-i-s-h  as  it  passed  by.
  Urie  described  the  size  as  ‘about
20  feet  long  by  10  feet  high  and
10  feet  wide,  giving  it  an  oblong
shape, It might be  described as looking like an inverted pie-plate or
broad-brimmed straw hat  that had
been  compressed  from  two  sides.
  Pressed  for his candid  opinion  of
 just  what  it  was, Urie said  that  he
was convinced  that  there was  something to this flying saucer  situation
“I know a number of the people who
have  also  seen  them  and  I  know
that  they're  not  just  imagining
something  or  trying to  get their
names  in  the  paper,”  Urie  commented.
  “T do know that it scared the boy
and  made  me  feel  pretty  uneas
he added,
  ‘Tracing down a rumor that County
Commissioner Hawkins had seen an
unusual  object  in  the  air  on  the
same  day  as  Urie’s  experience,  the|
‘Times-News called him at his Filer|
home.  |
  ‘Yes,  I  did,”  he  replied  without
hesitation.  “I'll  have  to  admit  I've|
been skeptical all along until T saw|
it  with  my  own  eyes.  I  can’t  say]
what it, was, but I can say there’s|
something  in the air.”
  Hawkins related that while at
Salmon dam Wednesday morning,
a sound  resembling the echo of  a
motor caused  him  to look  upward,
and there he saw two circular objects that reflected light. They were
traveling at a great speed and
higher than most airplanes, accord-
 ing  to Hawkins
  Aside from this,  he  declined  to
 add details,  except to say, “There's
 something in the air.
  His general description, however,
 corresponded. closely to those of
 hundreds of persons who reported
 seeing flying saucers  after Kenneth
 Arnold,  Boise  businessman,  had
 touched off the deluge by telling of
 coming  upon  nine  disc-like objects
 while he was flying  in his private
 plane in Washington.
  ‘Thereafter, the nation became in-
 creasingly flying saucer conscious,
 creating a state of mind that made
 it  possible  for  four  ‘teen  age Twin
 Falls boys to cause a mild sensa-
 tion when they built a model flying
  e  and  tossed  into  a  local  yard
 July 10. This was subseuently r
 vealed as a hoax, following invest
 gation  by the army  and  FBI.
  Thereafter  the  saucer  reports
 tapered off into a few scattered in-
 cidents  until  the  question  was  re-
 vived  by this week’s occurrences,
  Speculation  has  ranged  from
 mention  that  the  discs  could  be
 army or navy guided missile experi-
 ments,  or that they could be similar
 experiments by some  foreign coun-
 try,  to  “something  out  of  this
 worl
  Whatever, they are, a lot of people
 have seen “something.”
OUT OUR WAY

  LET THAT
  ALONE, YOU
  FATHEAD, AN!
 I1(  GO ON ABOUT
  YOUR BUSINESS:

  THE BUMP-OF|

SIDE GLANCES

  COPR. 1946 BY REA SERVICE, INC.

  “Tf you quit driving to worl
save enough money to buy Ju
the yard!”

CARNIVAL
 See

  ‘STANDARD
  FORM WO. C4

Office. Mem... dum * UNITED § 4 GOVERNMENT
  To  :  D. Me aap  DATE:  August 20, 1947
  uf
  FROM  :  E. G. Fite
  Authority
  SUBJECT.
  [nwo 0005]

  There is attached hereto c  Oo memoranda dated July 24,
  1947, and July 16, 1947, concern  3  B  x  ld Engineer, Radio
  J RESER SER R EE
  Corporation of America, Da:  »  Texas, 416  y  I  reet, Oklahoma
  City, Oklahona, and Kennethfirnold, Box 387,  Boise, Idaho.  These memorand:
  were made available to Spectal Agent  S. W.  ds of the liaison Section
  by General Schulgen of  the Army Air  Forces  Intelligence.  General Schulgen
  requested that the Bureau comluct a background investigation of  these two
  individuals  mentioned in bs attached  anda since they  were among the
  first to sight the alleged  discs.  He indicated that he desired that
  the i  stigation be direc  i  nether or  not either of
  these  individuals have any  e  l  z  t  ertain whe ther
  or not  they had any ulterior  motives  ‘  Devi

  RECOMMENDATION
  DATION
  p"
  It is recomend Bish
  “y

  Security Section.
  cp
  OCAPN/KDS:

#3724-1  24 July 1947

MEMORANDUM. TO THE SECURITY OFFICER, OCAMA, TINKER FIELD.

  SUBJECT:  BYRON B. SAVAGE, Field Engineer, Radio Corporation
  of America, Dallas, Texas. Residence: 416 N. W. 296h Street,
  Oklahoma City, Oklahome.)

  REs  Flyind Disc,

  On 23 July 1947,  BYRON B, SAVAGE was interviewed at his residence,
416 N. W. 29th Street, Oklahoma City, Oklahoma, relating to his alleged
viewing of a flying disc over the vicinity of Oklahoma City, Oklehomas

  Subject, whose age is 38, advised he is married end has one child,
end is presently the holder of a Private Pilot's License, No. 39101
(Single Engine, Land), Subject averred he has extensively studied electronics, sound engineering end aeronautics, and his present occupation, which is
Field Engineer for Radio Corporation of America,  offices of which ere
located in Dallas, Texas, is that of installing theater sound equipment,
SAVAGE stated that betw  the days 17 May to 21 Mey 1947, just-after dusk,
he observed an object which he believed to be a small aircraft in the south.
SAVAGE advised that the sun hed just gone down and the moon had not arisen
on the horizon.  SAVAGE related thet he and his wife had just departed
their residence and had started to enter their car in the driveway at
416 N. W. 29th Street, Oklahoma City. He judged the time to be between
8:30 pem,. end 9:00 pem., and the lights from the city of Oklahoma City
appeered to be shining on this object when he first sew it.  He judged the
object to be about 160° in the south when he first sew it, and as it moved
toward him he remarked to his wife thet "a big white plane wes coming over.”
  SAVAGE stated that when this object was at a 45° angle from him, he
realized it was not a conventional type aircraft, and it appeared elliptical
at first end as it moved closer it appeared perfectly round and wes flate
SAVAGE advised the object, which appeared to him as e disc, had no appearance
of being spherical and had a ratio of diameter to the thickness of approximately 10 to 1, appearing thicker in the center, but this could not be
positixely ascertained,  SAVAGE judged the object to be at en altitude of
between 10,000 and 18,000 feet, and it left no trailing effects. SAVAGE
related that it appeared to be in bulk as big as the bulk of six Be29s at
an altitude of spproximately the same height.  SAVAGE advised that the object
was in his vision approximately 15 to 20 seconds and travelled at a speed
which he judged to be approximately three times that of jet-propelled aircrafts
  “i  A
Memo“to the Security Officer, OCAMA, Tinker Field, dtd  24/47, File
3724-1,

  SAVAGE stated thet there were no protrusions on  this object end as it
went by he listened for a  sound of noise,  and at one time thouzht he distinguished  a  swishing sound like the rushing of  air.
occurred a few seconds after this object had passed him.

possible  that  the  sound  could  heave been his  imagination  or  expect
he was not sure of the  sound,  SAVAGE related thet he called his wife to
see this  object  but  it had  disappeared before  she  could  focus  her  eyes  on
it.  Subject stated thet  the object sppeered  to diminish  in  size and
speed as it moved .evays and it wes moving in a  direction of 350° to the
north.  Subject/stated thet  the  object appeared  to  be  frosty white  in
color  at

  SAVAGE advised  that he  has held  a  pilot's  certificate  since  1934  end
has  been flying  since  1929,  He  ad  ed  that  he  uld  be  glad  to  answer  any
further  inquiries end will  cooperate in  every way  possible.  SAVAGE stated
he was  sure  this  object was not  meteor and  in his  opinion  it must be
radically built  snd  powered,  probably atomic.

  KAIMAN  D,  SIMON
  C.I.  U.
  Incident
  4aF 1208  I
  16  July  1947

MEMO!

  1.  On  y  Kenneth Arnold,  Box 387,  Boise,  Idaho,
was  interview  in  r  rd  to  the  report by Mr,  Arnold  that he  saw 9
  enge  objects  flying  over  the  Cascede  Mountein  Range  of Washington
State on  July 25th.  Mr. Arnold  voluntarily sgreed  to  give  the  interviewer
&  written  report of  exactly what he hed  seen on  the ebove mentioned date.
The written  report of Mr. Arnold  is  attached  to this  report as  Exhibit /

AGENT*S NOTES:  Mr, Arnold  is  a  man of  32  years of  age,  being married  md
the father  of  children.  He  is  well  thought of  in  the community in
which he  lives,  being very much  the  family men end  from all  appearances
@ very  good provider for his  family.  Mr, Arnold has recently purchased a
home  on  the outskirts  of  Boise,  recently purchased a  $5,000 airplene  in
which to  conduct his  business  to  the  extent of which  is  explained  in  the
attached exhibit.  It is the personal  opinion of the interviewer that Mr.
Arnold  actually  saw whet  he  stated  thet he  saw,  It  is  difficult  to  believe
that  a  men  of Mr.  Arnold's  character  and  apparent  integrity would  state
thet  he  saw  objects  e  ite  up  a  report  to  the  extent  that  he  did  if  he
did  not  see  them  To  go  further,  if  n write  ea  report of  the
cheracter  thet  he  did while not  havin,  en  the  objects  that  he  claimed  he
sew,  it  is  the  opinion  of  interviewer  that  Mr,  Arnold  is  in  the wrong
business,  thet  he  show  be writing  Buck  Rogers  fiction.  Mr, Arnold  is
very  outspoken  end  somewhat  bitter  in  his  opinions  of  the  leaders  of  the
U.  S.  Army  Air  Forces and  the  Federel  Bureeu  of  Investigatién  for not having
made  an  investigation  of  this matter  sooner.  To put all  of  the  statements
made  by Mr.  Arnold  in  this  report would make  it  a  voluminous  volune.  However,
efter having checked  en aeronautical  map of  the erea over which Mr. Arnold
claims  that  he  saw  the  objects  it wes  determined  thet  ell  statements  made by
Mr, Arnold  in ri  rd  to  the distances involved,  speed  of the objects,  course
of  the  objects and  size  of  the objects,  could very possibly be facts.  The
distences  mentioned  by  «  Arnold  in  his  report ere within  a  short  distance
of  the  actual  distences on  aeronautical  charts  of  this  area,  although  Mr.
Arnold  has  never  consulted  aerone&tical  charts  of the  type  the  Army uses.
Mr. Arnold  stated  that this  business  hed  suffered  greatly  since  his  report
on  July  25  due  to  the  fact  that  et  every  stop  on  his  business  routes,  large
crowds  of  people were waiting  to question  him  es  to  just what  he  had  seen,
Mr.  Arnold  steted  further  thet  if  he,  st  any  time  in  the  future,  saw  anything
in  the  sky,  to quote Mr, Arnold directly,  “if  I  sew a  ten  story building

FRANK M.  BROWN, S/A,  CIC 4th AF

  Ps  ass
  VOINT Tyo fio
  Incident
  4AF  1208  I

flying  through  the  sir  I would  never say  a word  about  it",  due  to  the
fact  that  he  has  been  ridiculed  by  the  press  to  such  on  extent  thet  he
is  practically  a  moron in  the  eyes  of  the  majority of  the  population  of
the United  States.

1  Incl:  Exhibit "A"

FRANK M.  BROW
  LIFE DATA  NNETH  ARNOLD

  I wes born March  »  1915  in Subeke, Minnesote.  My father's

neme wes  Edward  Erb  Arnold; my mother's maiden neme was  Bertha

E,  Barden.  I was 6 resident of Minnesota  until’ I was six yeers

old when my family moved to Scobey, Montana, where they home-

steaded,  My grandfether, Rolend  C, Armold elso homesteaded  in

Scobey, Montena,  snd became quite prominent in political  circles

along with  Burton K,  Wheeler, the femous Montene  senator.

  I went  to  grede  school  and high  school  at Minot,  North

Dakota.  I  entered  scouting et  twelve years of  age end  achieved

the  rank  of  Eagle  scout before  I was  fourteen.  My former  scout

executive was H.  H.  Prescott,  now  a  regional  commissioner  for

the  Boy  Scouts  in  Kenses  City,  Kansas.

  As  a boy,  I  was  interested in  athletics and was selected

as  an  ellestete end  in  1932  and  1933  in  the  stete  of North

Dakote.  I  entered  the U.  Olympic  traals  in  fancy diving  in

1932;  I wes  a  Red  Cross  Life  Saving  Exeminer during  the  years

of 1932,  'S3  and  '  I  taught swimming end  diving  at  scout

camps  end  the mnicipel  pool  in  Minot,  North  Dekote.  I went

to  the  University of Minnesota, where I  swam end  did  fancy

diving under  Neils  Thorpe,  end  elso  played.  footbell  under  Bernie

Bierman,  but upon  entering  college  I was unable  to  continue my

football  career  because  of  en  injured knee,  y high  school  foot-

bell  coach was  Glenn  L,  Jerrett,  who  is  now  the  hesd  football

coach  of  the  University  of  North  Dakota.  I  had  little  or  no

finences,  and my  ambition  in  furthering my  education  in  college

  > Expres
  y  ALY
“Page 2 - Some Life dete on Kemeth érnola

was  through my  athletics.  4s  a  boy  in  Minot,  North  Dakote,  I

did  e  good  deal  of  dog  sled  rach  placing first  with my-dog

in  1930  in  the  Lions  Club  Dog  Derby.

  In 1938  I went to  work  for  Red  Comet,  Inc.  of Littleton,

Coloredo,  a menufacturer  of  automatic  fire  fighting  spparetus.

In  1939  I wes made district menager for them over #  part  of the

western  states,  and  in  1940  I  established  my own  fire  control

supply known  as  the  Greet Western  Fire  Control  Supply.  I  have

been  working  es  an  independent  fire  control  engineer  since,

and  I  hendle,  distribute,  sell  end  instell  all  types  of  auto-

metic  and  manual  fire  fighting  equipment  in  the  rurel  areas  over

five  western  states.

  fy flying  experience  started  as  a  boy  in  Minot,  North

Dekots,  where  I  took  my  first  flying  lesson  from  Earl  1,  Vance,

who was  originally from  Great  Falls,  Montena,  Due  to

cost  at  thet  time,  I was  unable  to  continue  my flying

not  fly of  any  great  consequence  until  1943.  I  was  given  my

pilot  certificate  by  Ed  Leach,  a  senior  inspector  of

Portland,  Oregon,  and  r  the  lest  three  years  have  owned  my

own  eirplane  covering my  entire  territory with  same  end  ying

from  forty  to  one  hundred  hours  per month  since.  Due  to  the

fect  thet  I  use  an  sirplane  entirely  in  my work,  in  Januery

of this  year  I  purchased  a  new  Callair  airplene,  which  is  en

airplane  designed  for  high  altitude  take-offs  end  short  rough

field  usage.

  In  the  type  of  flying I  do,  it  tekes  e  greet  deel  of

  <-NFIDENTIAL-—
practice end judgment to be able to land in most eny cow

pasture end get out without injuring your eirplane; the

runways ere very limited and the altitude is very high in

some of the fields and places I have to go in my work.  To

dete,  I have landed  in 852 cow pastures in mountein meadows,

end in over a thousend hours a flat tire has been my greatest

mishap.
FBI  SEATTLE  S-14-47

DIRECTOR FBI  URGENT  in  fy
  |  =)  HY  (by)
L. Re BRUMMETT.,  SIDPBECKER.  FLYING DISCS.  INTERNAL SCURITY=X.  {}  i,
AUGUST FOURTEEN MaeR@MIMHEK NINETEEN FORTYSEVEN SEATTLE POST INTELLIGENCER
PUBLISHED ARTICLE TO EFFECT THAT Le oferumert, BOX TWO FIVE FOUR RED-
MOND, WASH, AND SIDNEY DECKER BOX TWO NINE SIX REDMOND, WASHINGTON HAD
SIGHTED  TWO  DISCS  AT APPROXIMATELY NINE  AM  AUGUST  THIRTEEN  NINETEEN

FORTYSEVEN.  UPON INTERVIEW DECKER STATED THAT TWO VERY BRIGHT OJECTS
TRAVELING AT AN EXTREME RATE OF SPEED  WERE NOTICED BY HIM AS ueWas
STANDING  NEAR  THE  REDMOND  POST  OFFICE.  DECKER  DESCRIBED  THE  OBJECTS

AS  HAVING  NO WINGS,  NO  TAIL, AND BOTH ENDS  WERE  TAPERED.  ECKER  ADDED

THAT THE  OBJECTS  RESEMBLED A  BELLY  TANK AND  THAT  THEY  WERE  NOISELESS.

THE  OBJECTS WERE  VERY  BRIGHT AND  TRAVELING  IN  A  NORTHEASTERLY DIRECTION

OVER  REDMOND,  WASHINGTON,  ONE  A  BIT BEHIND  AND  A  LITTLE  ABOVE  THE  ones

MAINTAINING EQUAL RATES OF SPEED FOR APPROXIMATELY EIGHT SECONDS Ay,
WHICH  TIME  THEY  DISAPPEARED FROM VIEW.  DECKER  ADDED  THAT  THEY  WERE

HIGHER  THAN  A  PLANE  GENERALLY  TRAVELS.  BRUMMETT ADVISED  THAT HE  NOTICED

THE  OBJECTS  AND  CALLED  DECKERS  ATTENTION  TO  THEM  AND  ALSO  POINTED  T

OUT  TO. A  MRS  MAMIE  ENGLISH.  BRUMMETT  STATED THAT  HE  SAW  TWO OBJECTS

FLYBNG. AT  A FORTYFIVE  DEGREE ANGLE NORTHEASTERLY OVER eta  (  1/4
  mayoOoUH
  |  3ST  Tf
 poitt aU te-
  ‘Va
AWUNgas WNYSLN!
Westy Lt
  »  e2|

PAGE  Two

TRAVELING  AT LEAST  THREE  TIMES  FASTER  THAN  A  PLAN.  BRUMMETT ADDED  THAT

HE WATCHED THE  OBJECTS  FROM FIVE  TO EIGHT SECONDS  AT WHICH  TIME  THEY

DISAPPEARED FROM SIGHT.  ACCORDING  TO BRUMMETT  THE  OBJECTS  WERE  DESCRIBED

AS  BEING  NOISELESS,  HAVING  NO WINGS  OR  TAIL,  LIGHTER  THAN  ALUMINUM,

TAPERED AT BOTH  ENDS  AND  ONE  STAYED A  LITTLE  BEHIND  AND  A  BIT ABOVE  THE

OTHER AND BOTH MAINTAIND EQUAL RATES OF SPEED.  FROM BRUMMETTS OBSERVATIO

HE WAS  UNABLE  TO  DECIDE WHETHER  THE  OBJECTS  WERE FLAT OR  ROUND.  MRS

MAMIENENGLISH STATED THAT WHEN BRUMMETT CALLED HER ATENTION TO THE
OBJECTS  SHE  TOOK A  PASSING GLANCE  AT  THE  SKY AND COULD  OFFER NO

DESCRIPTION OTHER THAN  THEY LOOKED LIKE  TWO SILVER BALLS  TRAVELING

AT A  FAST  RATE  OF  SPEED.

END

SHOLD  PLS

9-28  PM OK FBI  WASH DC  GAR
  4.  STANDARD FORM NO, 64

  Office Memorandum ¢ UNITED S. * GOVERNMENT |
  er

  TO
  iN

|\x/FROM
\

  SUBJECT:

  istoc
  the

  or

  per  ri

  lemuria.
  other  resources  in  these

  mong  reade

COPIES DE
270  NOV 18 1964
Director, FBI
Re:  FLYING DISCS  tember 20,  1947

The article w  r
some  correl.  betwee  he  flyi  di  i  the  }  explosion,
that  RAYMOND PALMER  ice  mn  i  r  é  iy  5  ARNOLD to inves
gate  and  "cover!  i

The article went on to state  that on August 1,  1947,  at  Tacoma,  J  ington
  Ww  a conference among officials of  t  and Navy, who discussed
the possible relation between the  j  ion and  the appearance
of flying discs.  ARNOLD was supposed  to have been in attendance at this
conference.  At the conference,  authorities brought samples  of a lava oxide
metal, allegedly taken from the scene of the Murray Island  explosion.

The article stated that followi  the conference,  two pilots left by plane
for Hamilton Field,  California,  carrying samples  of the  lava oxide metal.
The  article further reported that  the plane  crashed near  Hamilton Field,
California,  and  it  conjectured  that  the plane had e  oded by reason of
the combustion of  the  lava  oxide  al it carried.

  above  newspaper article,  it should  be  noted  that  RAYMOND PALME!
  g  start  "expl  ing"  the  appearance  of
  ises,  possibly  t  the  appeal of  SHAVER's  stories.
  therefore,  that  the enti  flying disc theo:  Ss  concei
  Q

OAGslab

100-18999
  errmionto ronm no. 64  b  6

  : Office Memorandum + owtrep stares GOVERNMENT
bi TO :  SZ
  va,

  ie  :  Director, FBI  DATE: 9-17-47)  :

  <—AFROM  +  SAC, Anchorage

  SUBJECT:  ~Plying/Disks

  Reference is made to Bureau Bulletin No. 42 dated July 30,
  1947.

  This is to advise that two army officers repprted to the
  Office of the Director of Intelligence, headquarters Alaskan Department,
  at Fort Richardson, Alaska, that they had witnessed an object passing
  through the air at a tremendous rate of speed which could not be judged
  as to  miles per hour.

  The first officer stated that his attention was attracted to
  this airborne object, and he in turn pointed it out to the second of-
  ficer. The object appeared to be shaped like a sphere and did not give
  the impression of being saucer-like or comparable to a disk. The firsty
  officer stated that it would be impossible to give minute details con—
  cerning the object, but that it appeared to be approximately two or three
  feet in diameter and did not leave any vapor ~ trail in the sky.

  Both officers attempted to determine the approximate dltitude
  of the object, and from a weather group stationed nearby it was de-
  termined that cloud formations at the time the object was sighted were
  “scattered above 10,000 feet." The object was noted to be traveling
  below the cloud formation.

  The first officer stated that in his opinion the object ap-
  peared to be metallic and was silver in color, mech like the color of
  many airplanes.

  The second officer stated substantially the same facts and
  also pointed out that the object remined within his vision for ap-
  proximately 15 to 20 seconds. When sighted, the object was traveling
  due south at a speed considerably in excess of any plane. The second
  officer stated that the object appeared to him to be approximately 10
  feet in diameter and compared it to half the size of a full moon on an
  ordinary night. The second officer based the altitude at approximately
  the same as the first officer except for the fact that due to the size
  he believed the object to be, he estimated the altitude to be only
  approximately 3,000 or 4,000 feet. The object appeared broadside to
  the second officer, and no evidence of a spinning motion or reflection

  appeared to be a dull metal finish re
  was noted. As to the color, the second
  ]
  officer pointed out that it
  /
  /

P'7O.  NOV 18 1964
  UNITS TW
  HYasy

  on

uNnoas a
  ya a Wan
  !
  4
HY 22 pang  S
  ?

  gani393"
Letter to  Director, FBI
Re:  Flying Disks

  In conclusion, the  second officer pointed out that  one of
the remarkable features of this  object was that  it was definitely
traveling against  the wind.

  The exact date  of the  sighting  of  this  object was  not  furnished  this  office,  and  inasmch as  it  occurred  previously to the receipt  of Bureau  instructions  in  this  matter, no further  investigation
is being conducted by this office wmless  specifically requested to do
so  by  the  Bureau.

100-1403
HLM:GWH
STANDARD,FORM No. 64  *  }

- Office Memorandum * UNITED STATES GOVERN  \

  Director, FBI  DATE:  September~tGW 1947

  SAC, Philadelphia
  itt Lv
  r

SUBJECT:  FLYING OBJECT REPORTED OVER PHILADELPHIA  é  mA  A
  AUGUST 6, 1947  to
  SABOTAGE  :  :  a  Jo 4
  Remytel August 7 uae /y,
  Miss ELEANO)  IDLE, 2114 Hobart Street, Philadelphia, who is employed
 by the GEORGE R. GREENWALD MANUFACTURING COMPANY, 1524 Chestnut Street, Philg-
 delphia,  advised as follows:  \  we
  =  pa

  Between 10:30 and 10:45 p.m. on August 6, 1947,  she was sitting on
 the steps of her home with CEC:  E.  She was facing north and observed
 a large white object traveling a  very fast rate of speed to the south.
 There was a buzzing sound, not too loud but plainly audible, just after this
 object passed through the air. This white object left in its trait a thin
 streak of smoke, which was grayish in colors

  Miss CECELIA FINE,  5617 Arlington Street, Philadelphia, who is en-
 Ployed by the PRESSMAN & GUTMAN COMPANY, INC., Room 1140, P.S.F.S. Building,
 Philadelphia,  stated she was sitting on the steps of Miss NADDLE's home on
 the evening of August 6, 1947,  around 10:45 p.m. engaging in conversation
 with Miss NADDLE, when Miss NADDLE abruptly stopped in the:middle of her con-
 versation and appeared to be frightened.  Miss FINE at that time was sitting
 in a position in which she was facing south.  She did not see any object in
 the sky after noting Miss NADDLE's change of expression, but she did hear a
 slight buzzing sound.

  JOHN SNYDER,  1440 Vankirk Street,  Philadelphia, an insurance agent,
 who was a former pilot of B-24's in the Army Air Corps, advised as follows:

  He was sitting on the steps of his home around 10:45 p.m. on August
 6, 1947, with his wife; and his neighbors, the KELLY family, were sitting on
 their steps next door to the residence of SNYDER.  All of the above parties
 were facing east.  SNYDER noticed at this  time an object,  emitting a bluish-
 white flame, passing quickly through the air. The object was traveling from
 northeast to southwest.  Using his experience in the Army Air Corps as a guide,
 SNYDER estimated the above object was between 1000 and 3000 feet in the air  }

 and traveling at a rate of between 400 to 500 miles an hour.  This object dia
 not lose elevation as it passed through the air and left either smoke or a
 condensation trail in its former path, which lasted for about two seconds.
 A hissing sound accompanied the passing  s object.  This sound was moder-
 ate and not nearly as loud as thé\nt  agcompanying the passage of a rocket
 ship.  7.  OPH.

  RA norhiaw (ale Ma hs NDE ait i
  }  7  an  ay |  BT SEP  947

  ay  &

NOV 18 iv04
  Oe
  UNOS WNYBLN

  Hid 4h | 992:
  AAI  ORR

  LBs.
LNUNORS WAYSLN:

NUAT OL go:
  G3AI3934
Director, FBI  September 18,  1947

  JOHN J.  KELLY, 1442 Vankirk Street, who is a retired police officer
of the Philadelphia Police Department,  advised as follows:

  Around 10:45 p.m. on August 6,  1947, he and his wife were sitting on
the steps  of their home, when KELLY noticed an object,  resembling to him a
giant firecracker, pass quickly through the air.  KELLY heard no noise,  but
the object had completely passed from view in a southern direction within a
split second.  It left a fiery trail for about 100 feet.  August  6,  1947,
was a clear night,  and no storm was brewing.  KELLY was  sure the object he
saw was no falling star, and he noted the above object did not seem to be
falling but maintained the  same  altitude.

  The wives of SNYDER and KELLY verified the accounts of their husbands
as  to the above-mentioned object.

  It is  to  be noted that the SNYDERS and  the KELLYS live  in Northeast.  .
Philadelphia near  Oxford Circle,  which is  about  ten miles  removed  from the
residence of Miss NADDLE.  Miss NADDLE's residence is located in the western
part of Philadelphia.  The Misses NADDLE and FINE are not known to the abovementioned KELLYS and SNYDERS.  It is further noted the observation of Miss
NADDLE,  the KELLYS,  and the SNYDERS roughly correspond.  All of the above
persons  seem reliable and not the type to seek publicity or to  spread rumors.

  Miss NADDLE and vorbcenY.called the "Inquirer", Philadelphia newspaper, and inquired if it could offer any exlanation as to what they had
seen.  A representative of that paper had advised Miss  NADDLE and KELLY that
the object  they saw may have been  some product of an oil refinery or chemical
company in their neighborhood.

  Both the Offices of Naval Intelligence and Army Intelligence in Philadelphia were requested by the Philadelphia Office to ascertain if either  the
Army or the Navy was doing any experimental work on new types  of planes  or
equipment,  in  the vicinity of Philadelphia.  ‘Such was done with negative results.  The Office of Naval Intelligence indicated that an explosion had occurred at the CHARLES LENNIG CHEMICAL COMPANY on August 6,  1947.

  S.  A.  GIMBEL,  Safety Department of the CHARLES LENNIG CHEMICAL COMPANY,
INC.,  5000 Richmond Street, Philadelphia,  advised as follows:

  The  above company is a manufacturer and distributor of chemicals.
A fire had occurred on a dump of the company on August  6,  1947,  but was
quickly gotten under control.  Such fire was confined to the company's premises  and could not  have been observed from outside  the  plant.  The CHARLES
Director, FBI  September 18,  1947

LENNIG COMPANY is  about  two  and one-half miles  southeast from Oxford Circle.
The account of the  fire does  not seem to  fit into  the  general  pattern of the
above-mentioned flying  object,  for itis noted  that the flying  object was
allegedly traveling from a po  ion northeast of Oxford Circle to a southwesterly direction in Philadelphia.  GIMBEL pointed out that,  to  the best
of his  knowledge,  there are  no oil  refineries  and  chemical  companies  located
around Oxford Circle or north  of such,  but that all of the companies  of this
type  are  several miles south of Oxford Circle.

  All logical investigation having been conducted,  no further action
will be taken on  the instant matter unless advised to the contrary by the
Bureau.

FFB/ctg
98-1762
  September 27,  1947

  Major General George C. McDonald
  Assistant Chief Air Staff - 2
  The Pentagon
  Washington, D. C,  fZ /
RECORDEP
  Dear General éoDondld:
  The Federal Bureau of Investigation has been requested
  by your office to assist in the investigation of reported Ssignt-
  ings of flying disos.

  My attention has been called to instructions disseminated
  by the Air Forces relative to this matter. I have been advised
  that these instructions indicate that the Air Forces would inter-
  view responsible observers while the FBI would investigate incidents
  of dises found on the ground, thereby relieving the Air Forces of
  running down incidents which in many cases turned out to be  “ash
  ean covers, toilet seats and whatnot."

  In view of the apparent understanding by the Air Forces
  of the position of the Federal Bureau of Investigation in this
  matter, I cannot permit the personnel and time of this organiza-
  tion to be dissipated in this manner.

  I am advising the Field Divisions of the Federal Bureau
  of Investigation to discontinue all investigative activity regard-  , “4
  ing the reported sightings of flying discs,  and am instructing them  “
  to refer all complaints received to the appropriate Air Force  e
  representative in their area.

  Sincerely yours,
-  STANDARD FORM NO. 64  r  é

  i Office Memorandum * UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT
  TO  :  THE DIRECTOR  DATE: September 25, 1947
  A  '« Tolson,

  FROM  :  OD. M.  IADD  2 Ee  As

  SUBJECT:  FLYING DI
  eee

  The Bureau was requested by the Air Forces Intelligence to assiet. e=n
  the Air Forces in attempting to arrive at an explanation of the above  flee toe
  phenomenae  The Air Forces indicated that the alleged sightings of flying Wise oe
  discs might have been made by individuals of Comnunist sympathies for the ____———
  purpose of causing mass hysteria in the United States over the fear of a secret
  Russian weapon.  ‘The Bureau agreed to assist in the investigation of the reported
  sightings, and the Field was advised in Bureau Bulletin No. 42, Series 1947, dated
  July 30, 1947, that they should investigate each instance which was brought to
  their attention of the sighting of a flying disc in order to ascertain whether or
  not it was a bona fide sighting, an imaginary one, or a pranke  The results of the
  investigation conducted by the Bureau Field Offices in this matter have failed to
  reveal any indication of subversive individuals being involved in any of the
  reported sightings.

  The Bureau has received a communication in the captioned matter from
  the Special Agent in Charge at San Francisco, dated September 19, 1947, which
  attached a "restricted" letter that was furnished confidentially to the SAC at
  San Francisco by Lieutenant Colonel Donald Le Springer, A-2, Army Air Forces,
  Hemilton Field, California, a copy of which is attached hereto.  It is noted
  that the letter, which is dated September 3, 1947, is signed "By Command of
  Lieutenant General Stratemeyer" by Colonel Re He Smith, Assistant Chief of Staff
  Intelligence, Headquarters, Air Defense Command, Mitchel Field, New York, and is
  addressed to the Commanding Generals of the various Air Forces.  This  letter is
  entitled "Cooperation of FBI with AAF on Investigations of ‘Flying Disc'  Incidents."

  This letter states in substance that it was the original intent of the
  AC/AS-2, Headquarters, Army Air Forces that whereas the ADC Air Forces would
  interview responsible observers, the FBI would investigate incidents of so-called
  dises being found on the ground.  Further, it indicates that the services of the
  FBI were enlisted in order to relieve the numbered Air Forces of the task of
  tracking down all the many instances which turned out to be "ash can covers,
  |}  toilet seats and whatnot."

  RECOMMENDATION:

  It is recommended that the Bureau protest vigorously to the Assistant
  Chief of Air Staff - 2.  It is also recommended
  that the Bureau discontinue all
  activity in this  field and that the Bureau Field Offices be advised to discon-
  tinue all investigations and to refer all complaints received to the Air Forces.
  4 proposed Bulletin is attached for your approval.  iO
  Attachment.

  SWR:AJB  R

  “A }
  O20 NPE

  HEADQUARTERS
  AIR DEFENSE  COMMAND
  Mitchel Field, New York

In reply
refer tos

D333 .5EX  3  September 1947

SUBJECT:  Cooperation of FBI with AAF on Investigations  of "Flying
  Disc” Incidents.

  Commanding Genrals, First, Second, Fourth, Tenth, Eleventh
  and Fourteenth Air Forces
  ATTENTION:  Assistant Chief of staff, A-2

  1.  The Federal Bureau of Investigation has agreed to assist Air
Force Intelligence personnel in the investi gation of "flying dise"
incidents  in order to  quickly and effectively  rule  out what  are  pranks
and to concentrate on what appears to be a genuine  incident.

  2.  It was the original intent of the AC/AS-2, Headquarters,
Army Air Forces that whereas the ADC Air Forces would interview responsible  observers whose names would be furnished by AAF, the  FBI would
investigate incidents of so called "discos" being found on the ground.
The services of the FBI were enlisted in order to relieve the numbered
Air Forces of the task of tracking down all the many instances which
turned out  to be  ash can covers, toilet  seats  and whatnot.

  3.  It  is  requested that each A-2  informally coordinate and
cooperate with the  FBI,  generally keeping the FBI informed of any
proposed calls that  intelligence personnel will make on this subject.
Very shortly, with the separation of the AAF from the War Department,
a firm policy will  be  established to clarify the  liaison arrangements
between A-2's and FBI Special Agents.  Presently, it is considered
inadvisable  to promulgate a formal  interim policy -- only to have  it
replaced in a month or so by another.

  BY COMMAND OF LIEUTENANT GSNERAL STRATEMEYER:

  /s/ ®. BH. SMITH
  R.  He  SMITH
  Colonel,  GSC
  Asst  Chief of Staff-Intell.
 STANDARD FoRvigge64 *  r  s

 Office Men... .:cdum + UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT
 TO : MR. LADD of ‘  omy  DATE: SEPTEMBER 23, 1947_,
 FROM  :  §, G. FITCHEz/  /  ee
  4
 SUBJECT:  INSTRUMENT FOUND ON FARM NEAR
  DANFORTH, ILLINOIS  “©,  NESEESEEEE
  AAG

  Reference is made to a memorandum to Mre Harbo from Mr. Baughman frien Room,  +
  quinn Tax

  nase,
on the above-captioned matter, dated September 3,  1947,  The reference  Mise Holes —
memorandum indicates that the instrument has been examined by the Laborato  B-  =)
and the  laboratory had contacted a Mrs. Whedon of the Army Engineers and s'  he j , 4
indicated that the instrument had been used by the Air Forces on tests which begte
were classified as  "Top Secret."

  The memorandum indicates that Special Agent S. W.  Neynolds of the Liaison
Section contacted the  Intelligence Division of the Air Forces and was advised that
Mrs. Whedon alluded that the instrument was used in "Operation Mogul."  The instrument was  loaned to the  Intelligence Division of the Air Forces who in turn forwarded

instrument had no connection wispP poration Yoga" or any other operation at Wright
it to Wright Field.  The  report  s  received from Wright Field indicating the

Field.  It was classified as a hi  in view of the apparent discrepancy between
information developed from Mrs. Whedon and information received from Intelligence
Division of the Air Forces that the Bureau might wish to pursue this matter further.

  Mre  Zimmers of the Technical laboratory advised Mr. Reynolds of the Liaison
Section that Mrs. Whedon had told him that a Major Hopkins handled the  Liaison in
Washington for the  tests  in which this  instrument was  usede  Ijeutenant Colonel  George
Garrett of the  Intelligence Division of the Air Forces advised Special Agent Reynolds
that he contacted Major Hopkins.  He advised that Major Hopkins has had ea great deal
of experience in radio and along technical  lines.  Major Hopkins advised Colonel
Garrett that the instrument could not have been used in the "Operation Mogul."  Hopkins
indicated that from the  pictures and particles  recovered, it appeared to him to be a
part or portions of an old=-type  radio loud  speaker.  :  q

  In view of the information received from Major Hopkins, Colonel re
stated that he was at a loss as to how to  explain the actions of Mrs. Whedon other
than to  say that  she  perhaps  gave a false  impression as  to her knowledge of the  Var
instrument and the "Operation Mogul."  Garrett pointed out that in view of the  FI\
report received from Wright Field,  together with the  statement made by Major Hopkins,
he felt that there was  sufficient evidence that this  instrument was not used in any’
baw.  i  nal classified project and that in all probability it was just a hoax.
  te  Ferd

  RECOMMENDATION:  It is recommended that this memorandum be forwarded to

  pa| 62-62  994-142
the  Technical  Iaboratory for their  information.  >  Or  A)

  ¥ DEXED 32 ‘bien ’ te
  LEGENWE

  P25  i 25 AN”
  RECEIVED  ae  ‘  NIDA.  ABORATOF
LIAISON SECTION  r€  Bi
  DEPT NF JUSTICE
8  1 02 AM 77
  TSNAD2B/AG/bic
  \  -  \  25 August 1917
  ogg)
@ (gh \ y\  DECLASSIFIED
\e  %\  SUBJECT:  Flying Saucer,  Ath
  TOs  Commanding General
  Arny  fir Forces
  Washington 25,  De  Ce
  ATTN: AG/AS@2
  Lt Col George Garrett
  Cc

  lL  The  specimens of an alleged  "Flying Saucer"  brought to this
  Command by Colonel H, M. McCoy, which were obtained by the FBI and given
  to IteCol Garrett, were examined to determine their connection, if any,
  with the soecalled “Flying Saucers", or any project at iy AMG, Wright
  Field.  The specimens were carefully examined by both technicians of the
  Analysis Division (T-2) and Electronics Sub-divisim (T#3),  Ths latter
  organization stated  that these specimens definitely had no connection
  whatsoever with  the  "Mogul"  project nor with any other research and devele
  opment project of  this Command,

  2.  It is  also the  opinion  of this Command that these  specimens
  have no connection with the  so-called  "Flying  Saucer"  or "Disc",  These
  specimens,  therefore,  are considered as part of  a hoax that could be per
  petrated by most anyone  seeking publicity or for any other reasons,

  3.  The specimens shown in the attached photograph include frage
  ments of an undeterminable shape made from plaster of paris or similar
  ceramic and containing some electrical resistance wire for measurement
  or heating purposes.  The condition of the ceramic indicates that the
  resistance wire was heated electrically at one time or another. These
  fragments could not be connected with any AMC project.  The other articles
  at the  top of  the  photograph reading from left to right are identi?
  follows:  A

  a,  An outmoded type of magnetic speaker diaphraga
  inum alloy, manufactured by  The Wathaniel Baldwin Company of Salt Lake
  City,  Jtah,  which was  first  patented May 1,  1910,  This  article  cannot be
  connected with any ANC project.

  De  The  second and thizmd  articles are bakelite  coil forms
  4
  OU,AAF, Wash. DO”  25 August 19)7
  pjects  Flying Saucers

wrapped with ordinary thin enameled copper wire.  These coils indicate
that they were skillfully uade at one  time but were crudely rewrapped by
one not familiar with the art of making a coil,  These coils also have no
connection with any AMO project.

  S.  The fourth article  is a metallic box which is the remains of
an electronic filter emdenser made by the Polymet Manufacturing Company
of New York, N. XY, This article also has no connection with any AMG proe
ject,

  de  The fifth article is the remains of a metallic magnetic
ring that could not be identified as any part of any device used at this
command,

  le  This information and attached photograph may be transmitted to
the FBI to inform various agencies throughout the United States as to what
action to take in  the event other similar specimens are  found,

  FOR THE  COMMANDING GENERAL:

  H, Mi. MeCCY
2 Incl:  Colonel, Air Corps
  1 Photo &-1/2x12  Deputy Commanding General
  “Flying Saucer"  Intelligence (T-2)
ENCLOSURE
  “a

4 VIG SAVCER , ALCEGEO  SPECIIEN S,

  2335138
  Office Memorandum ¢ UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT
  Director, FBI  DATE:  September  15, ,  1947

oe FROM  :  Salt Lake City

  SUBJECT:

  Remytel  tenth  instant.

  On  September  10,  1947  an  it
  ne  Salt  Lake  Tribune  indicat
  I  Mr.  andMrs;  RIC
  1  the  first  at
  10:40  p.m.  and  two  more  before  1  t  ani  tenber  8,  1947.
  This news article  contained  the  C
  Mr.  and  of  Logan  who
  having  observed

  »  when  interview  by  an  Agent  of  this
  office,  advised  that  they,  in  company  ith  Mr.  and  Mrs.  GAYLON  CALDWELL,  observed
  approximately  a  dozen  objects  flying  in  gro  ion  at  about
  thousand  feet  s  i
  on  September  947  at  10:30  p.m
  went out  on the porch.  The  ANDER
  size  to  pigeons  and  stated
  They informed  +!  bso  k  birds;  howe-ve  they appeared
  to  be  moving  faster  t}  nately  one  to
  two  minutes,  and  then  in  a  northern  direc

  and  Mrs  y  Y  claimec  hav  served  r  movement during
  the  flight,  and  are  unable  to  make  up  is  as  c  what  they  saw.
  SON  informed  that  Mr.  and  M  C  L  are  ¢  en  route  to  an
  nown  city  in  Nebraska.

  fr,  KEITH  HUGHES  and  JOAN  C  KSTON  both  advi  hey  were  unable
  to  state  eir  names  appeared  in
  saucers  inasmuch  as  neither  had  ever
  objects,  and  the  newspaper  report  was  erroneous.

  f  L  advised  that
  had  obser  a  ery  ¢  ot  ot  =)  mn  :30  and
  September  8,  1947.
  thirty-fi
  and  were

  these  ob
  x ‘i a
  squeals)

  as
  ano  ‘

LHun
  gag
  Igy  i aa yA
  TN
  3938
  S Ly
  )
«Hid 6T ¢  yan
  fd ¢  Sowyak!
  ‘\ee}
  UIA  9 ay

  Lg ] F
  and  Mrs

  ing  clockwi
  1947  qT

  was  determined  that
ere  not  available  for
  seeing

  at,  (ke

fares
  q  Post-OrFice DEPARTMENT  gq
  BUREAU OF THE CHIEF INSPECTO!

7  OFFICE OF INSPECTOR
He kor
sass  Chicago 7, Tlinois  case No. 56114-F
  rof  September  19,  1947.

Laatesr, ILLINOIS: Alleged violation of Section 2350, P. Le. &
  R.,  |  ies  Arc  Foundation»  sale  of  informa-

Federal  Bureau of  Invest
Washington,  D.  Ce.

Gentlemen:

  the  subject  involved  in  case  of  above  description  is
C.  WAStevens,  formerly of  Lake  Forest,  Illinois,  who may
also have given a Chicago address at various times.

  Can  you  advise  whether  you  have  a  record  of  this man
and  if  so,  will  you  please  forward  a  copy of  same  to  me.

  Sincerely yours,

  Post Office  Inspector.

  a
Office Memorandum * UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT
  >

zo  *  DIRECTOR, FBI  DATE: Septeriber\13, 1947
FROM  :  SAC, SEATTLE
  7

SUBJECT:  “FLYING DISC SIGHTED
  July  29, 1947, neay’CANYON FERRY,
  ITANA, BY KA  RAMAN, ye steve
  HERRMANN and Re Je |  DDEN;
  SECURITY MATTER - X

  Enclosed herewith for information of Bureau and Butte Division are ,
 copies of the following received September 2, 1947, from H. Re PETERSON, At 1/30 €
 Air Force, S-2, McChord Field, Washington:  DELGRE pe

  letter to Military Intelligence Division, USA, MeChord Field, Wash.
  from Re Je MADDEN, 427 W 3rd Ave. Spokane, Wash. dated 8/8/47,
  with enclosure of Madden's "Report on a'Flying Saucer'."

  No action being taken by Seattle.
  REOORD:

  INDE
  p=

 EEBshg
 100-18945
 Enclosures - 2
 ce: Butte

a
om
WYNITS TWay
  giN

 O3A1393y
  September 24,  1947

  Mr. T. H. Barkow
  Inspector
  Post Office Departnent
  Chicago  7,  Illinois

  Alleged violation of Section 2550,  P. L. &
  R., by des Arc Foundation; sale of information
  on flying disos.

  Reference is made to your letter dated September 19, 1947,
  requesting information regarding one C, W. Stevens, your case #56114-F,

  You are  advised  that an effective search  cannot) be conducted
  through the files of the Identification Division of the Federal Bureau
  of Investigation on the basis  of the name only.  If you are able to  fur-
  nish the physical description of Stevens or other means of identification
  such  as  a registry number, a search will be conducted in an effort to
  furnish you with  the information desired.

  ?
  <
  ?
  re

  ECTION

  9
Tolson,

  P.M

  ESTIGATION
y
  te Me:

  q  é
  Office Memorandum * UNITED S...... GOVERNMENT
  TO  : ° DIRECTOR, FBI  DATE:  Sept. 12;.1947

  FROM  :  SAC,  SEATTLE

  subject: @“FLYING DISKS Reported by eee usa
  and I \AICHOLS, Seattle, Washington,  ()
  By

  SECURITY MATTER X

  The  newspaper, Seattle  Post  Intelligencer, carried an  article  in  the
  issue  of  August nS  reporting the  sighting of  flying  disks.  The  article
  on the  fifth  page  and was  headed  "Blue Triangle LatestThing  Seen  In
  Under this ca tion there was a short w.  Ww  h stated, in substance,
  one  BRUCE  G,  an electronics technician,  2  number  of  other  en—
  gineers  at  the  i  ircraft  hed  sighted  a  mysterious  flying object  about  2:20
  pem.  on  August  12.  he  newspaper report  further  stated that  the object  seemed
  to be  fluttering  leaf,  and  appeared to  be  a  black  or dark blue triangular
  substance.  In th  bd  )  appeared  another report  of  a  disk supposedly
  sighted by one M.  A.  NIC  Sas:  12nd  Street,  Seattle,  and NICHOLS des—
  eribed  it  as  a  big  ball reflecting light,  giving  it  a purplish  tinge.

  Interview with BRUCE  ARMSTRONG on August  13  revealed that  ARMSTRONG
  was  standing  in front  of  Section D of  the  Boeing Aircraft Plant with  about ten
  other  research engineers  and  had  noticed  a  small  black  object  flying  about  200
  feet  high,  going  south  over Boeing Field runway.  ARMSTRONG further  stated,  upon
  interview,  that  the  object  ap  ed triangular in  shape  floated  in the  air
  like  a  leaf,  and  he  estimated the  speed to  be  about  fifteen miles  per hour.
  RONG  could  not  accuretely determine  the  distance  between  |
  but  it  is  noted that  Section  D  is  about  half  a  mile  from the  opposite
  Boeing Field where he  supposedly had sighted  it.  See

  The following  other research enginéers were also intervie
  this  object;

  R  RECORDED
  BEN HAGER  y Fs  ac
  LEROY PERKINS  y nc,  INDEXED
  TAG
  Boy  d

  The consensus of opinion of these  men was that the objec’  resembled
  in flight  and looked more like  a  piece  of  tar  paper than anyth ingiCT  Wieliicttie  object
  reached the end of the runway in Boeing Field it climbed into the sky in a south-
  westerly  direction  and  disappeared.

  Mr. KEN GRANT, opby b¥or of the control tower for  Northwest Airlines
  was  then  contacted.  }  ANT  s  e  her  2  orts  of ,ob3
  in  the vicinity  af
  of
  the

  LOCKWOOD, who
  following info

  { a Lal \POPIES DESTROY  YED

  q  &70  NOoV18 1964
DIRECTOR, FBI  NG DISKS,  8/26/h7

afternoon there were several pieces  of  burnt paper which flew  over the  field,
and he did  recall a large  e  of  burnt  which  the  wind had blown  across
the runway and down the south end of the field.  LOCKWOOD estimated that the
paper  was  approximately three  feet  in length.  GRANT  stated that  undoubtedly
this  was the  object  in question,  and inasmuch  2  wer  has a complete
view of  the area in which  the  engineers had sighted t  obj  if  ar  g further  was  noted it  would have appeared in the log.

  Mr. M.  A.  NICHOLS,  1119  Ss. W.  102nd Street, was then  interviewed regarding his report  o  flying object.  NICHOLS stated that  about 4 p.m.  on August 12
he  had  sighted  an  object which  he  estimated to  be  about  35,000  feet  in the  air,
which was  flying  over  his  home  i  west  di  ion.  A  neighbor, RAY STANLEY,
also  saw  the  object  and STANLEY examined t  ith  a pair  of  binoculars.
According to  STANLEY the  object  looked like  a  ock moving,  cylindrical  in
shape,  reflected the  light of  the  sun with a  sort  o:  x  ish  ti  Other
witnesses who  he  object at  this  ti  V  Mu  s  GE KROGSTADT,
of 1113  s.  102nd Street, Seattle,  and their version of  the  object  corresponded
with that of NICHOLS  and STANLEY.
  Contact with  SERMAIN,  h  Weather Bureau Office
at Boeing Field,  reveal  I  every six hours
from his  field commencing at 1:30  The balloons,  according to Mr. GERMAIN 2
are of a white gum  color cite zertect ie Light of  th  high altitude.
Although Mr. GER  ve been sighted
at 4 p.m., h  1  z  i s ercH the description of the object
seen by these people,  i  k  1 either one of his balloons or one released
from some  other  a  in  the  vicinity.

  No further  invest  is being conducted  in  s  matter by this
office.
  Federal Burtan ot Investigation ]
  United States Department of Justice
  422 = Federal Office Building, Civic Center V
  San Francisco 2,  California
  September 19,  1947

 /

JSDirector, FBI

  FE: -RSPORTS OF FLYING DISCS  a
  Attention:  Assistant Director D. M. LADD

  Dear Sire

  I am transmitting herewith copies of a "restricted" letter aw ANG
  September 5, 1947, which was furnished to me by Lieutenant Colonel DOWALD
  L. SPRINGER, A-2, Army Air Forces, Hamilton Field, California, which letter
  is designated to certain Commanding Generals in the Army Air Forces from
  Colonel R. H. SMITH, Assistant Chief of Staff =- Intelligence, Headquarters
  Air Defense Command, Mitchel Field, New York, concerning "Cooperation of FBI
  with AAF on Investigations  of  ‘Flying Disc  Incidents",

  It is my understanding from recent Bureau instructions that we are
  to assist the Air Force Intelligence personnel in the investigation of flying
  disc incidents.  However, it will be noted from the attached letter that it
  is Army interpretation that it was their intent that the Bureau would investi-/
  gate those incidents of the so-called “discs” being found on the ground and  f
  apparently not those which are observed only in flight.  Further, the atten=
  tion of the Bureau is respectfully called to paragraph two of this letter
  and to the last sentence therein which states, "The services of the FBI were
  enlisted in order to relisve the numbered Air Forces of the task of tracking
  down _all the many instanées which turned out to_be ash can covers, toilet
  seats and whatnot."

  In the first place, the instructions issued by the Army Air Forces
  in this letter appear to limit the type of investigations which the Bureau
  will be asked to handle and secondly it appears to me the wording of the last
  sentence in the second paragraph mentioned above is cloaked in entirely
  uncalled for language tending to indicate the Bureau will be asked to poy
  investigations only in those cases which are not important and which are
  almost,  in fact,  ridiculous.  x

  The thought has occurred to me the Bureau might desire to discuss
  this matter further with the Army Air Forces both as to the types of investi-
  gations which we will conduct and also to object to the scurrilous wordage
  which, to say the least, is insulting to'ths Bureau in the last sentence of
  paragraph twoe
AJUNIAS WNYZLNI

aid 2 ph Ao
  OSA  038
Director, FBI  9/19/47
RE:  REPORTS OF FLYING DIScs

  In the event the Bureau decides to discuss the matter further with
the Army Air Forces, it is recommended that no indication whatsoever be
given indicating this letter was referred to me by Lieutenant Colonel
SPRINGER  inasmuch as  it would undoubtedly cause  him serious  embarrassment
and would certainly cause the  excellent personal  relationship which exists
between Lieutenent  Colonel  SPRINGER and this  office  to  be  endangered.

  Very truly yours,

  Me\KimbaN  = C
  a1  Agent  in  Charge

HMK smhr
62-2938
  C220.
  Pb. Y

  HEADQUARTERS
  AIR DEFENSE  COMMAND
  Mitchel Field, New York

In reply
refer tor

D333 .5EX  3 September 1947

SUBJECT:  Cooperation of FBI with AAF on Investigations of "Flying
  Disc"  Incidents»

  Commanding Genrals, First,  Second,  Fourth, Tenth, Eleventh
  and Fourteenth Air Forces
  ATTENTION:  Assistant Chief of Staff, A-2

 4  le  The Federal Bureau of Investigation has agreed to assist Air
Force Intelligence personnel in the investi gation of "flying disc”
incidents  in order to  quickly and effectively  rule  out what  are  pranks
and to concentrate on what appears to be a genuine  incident.

  26  It was the original intent of the AC/AS=2, Headquarters,
Army Air Forces that whereas the ADC Air Forces would interview responsible observers whose names would be furnished by AAF, the FB would
investigate incidents of so called "discs" being found on the grourd.
The services of the FBI were enlisted in order to relieve the numbered
Air Forces of the task of tracking down all the many instances which
turned out to be ash can covers, toilet seats and whatnot,

  3.  It is requested that each A-2 informally coordinate and
cooperate with the FBI, generally keeping the FBI informed of any
proposed calls that intelligence personnel] will make on this subject.
Very shortly, with the separation of the AAF from the War Department,
a firm policy will be established to clarify the liaison arrangements
between A-2's and FBI Special Agents. Presently, it is considered
inadvisable to promulgate a formal interim policy <= only to have it
replaced in a month or so by anothers

  BY COMMAND OF LIEUTENANT GENERAL STRATEMEYERs

  /s/ Re He SMITH
  R. He SMITH
  Colonel, GSC
  Asst Chief of Staff-Intell.

  Pm  oeiR
  rs  BEV
  (0) etme DISCS --Effective immedia
  gative activities
  tely, the Bureau has discontinued its
  ag outlined  investi-
|  dated July 30, 1947,  in Section B of Bu
  reau Bulletin No
  ,  42,  Series  1947,

  All future report
  s connecte
  d with flying dis
  the Air Forces and  es should  be referred to
  no investigative ac
  tion gshould be tak
  en by Bureau Agents,

  nL

  C

  6

  ORIGINAL
STANDARD Fx  é  4
Office Miemoranaum + UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT
To  :  Director, FBI  DATE:  September 27, 1947
  4

pte q tac » Butte
SUBJECT:  FLYING DISCS  SIGHTED MAY 5,  1947,
  BETWEEN ELLENSBURG AND SEATTLE, WASHT

  Werden JOM HENRY,  Montana State  Prison,  Deer  Lodge,  Montana,  has
 advised the writer  that while driving between Ellensburg end Seattle, Washing~
  ton,  about 3:30 P.M., on May 5,  1947, he  sighted a silver  object streaking
 across the sky.  This was also seen by MELBOURNE MeHILL,  convict chauffeur,
 and Mrs,  HENRY,  This  object went into a nose  dive  and they thought it would
 crash,  However, before reaching the  earth it disintegrated,  leaving  a  long
 pillar of “gas" hanging in the sky.  It was particularly odd because this re-
 mained in form and did not blow away.  It was  observed by these three people
 while  they drove from twenty to  thirty miles,

  This smoky, gaseous pillar was a long ways off ant ’Yemained high
 in the  sir,  Warden HENRY said that this  silver object was  traveling at an  //’
 excessively high rate  of speed and when it disintegrated it was  still  a long
 wey  from the earth.  Warden HENRY said when he  first saw it he  thought  it was
 probably a  jet propelled plane but that he  ‘couldn't tell except that  its mo-
 tions  were erratic.  He  said he  had not reported it until he  had noticed so
 much in  the papers about these  discos.  Although three  people  saw it,  they  de~
 cided that they mst be  "seeing  things",

  The  Seattle  Office is  requested to advise Mr. H.  R.  PETERSON, 4th
 Air  Force, S-2,  McChord Field,  Washington.

  No further action is being taken by the Butte Office  due  to the
 time elapsing between the  sighting  of this  object and the  report,

 WGB:LB

 co  =  Seattle
  there  are  attached hereto,
  Photographs of
received  by  the  various  reports
  Air  Corps  in  connection wit
——
  ae
  h  above-captioned
  hla
  matter,
the  Tigison  Sectior
  $e  aol  Acant  ¢
  by  Lieutena:  Colonel-k.
  alas  —f
Vivision of the Air  1.  Garrett  of  the
  Force  for  tellizence
  completion Of Bureau
  files,

  RECOMMENDATION:
  It  is  recommended that
available  to  this mInsmorandum be
  Supervisor  R.  G,  Fletcher
  made
his  of  the  Internal
  information.  Security  Section  for
