  Lamson sSy |
  ry  j

  ' BUREAU  ee

  seiT=“

  fota3s
  LNolo3ss

SU E DES#T_R2eOzeYr7S  osoO

‘Transfer-Cal 421=
  FOIA
  SAVANNAH

 IRECTOR,  FBI  URGENT  aa

FLYING SAUCERS,  SAVANNAH RIVER PLANT, AEC.  SECURITY OFFICE OF AEC
ADVISED THIS DATE. THAT TWO EMPLOYEES OF THE E.  I.  DU PONT COMPANY

SAW A BLUE LIGHT WITH AN ORANGE  FRINGE SHAPED LIKE A SAUCER FLYOVER

THE FOUR HUNDRED AREA OF THE SAVANNAH RIVER PLANT AT APPROXIMATELY

NINE THIRTY PM AUGUST EIGHT, FIFTYTWO.  OBJECT FLYING AT A HIGH RATE

OF SPEED AND TRAVELING IN A NORTHEASTERN DIREC pION.Vs o  son
  RECORDED 68  (spond Noam
  7 AUG 14 1982

ACK  AND  H  O  L  D_  eecccecee

7-48  PM OK FBI  WA  NRB  -
  (Vv

2 AUG $41i9§
  August  ll,  1952

  Ur.  Edmond  Jy  ane
  Mauston,  Wisconsin

  P+  =
  Dear Mr. Kane:  “  SIS
  Your letter dated August  1,  1952,  has
  been  received,  and  I  appreciate  the  interest  which
  prompted  your  bringing  your  observations  to  my
  attention.

  Inasmuch  as  the  matter  of  the flying
  saucers  is  being  investigated  by
  the United States
  Air  Force,  J  am  taking  the  liberty of forwarding a
  copy  of  your  letter  to  the  Director  of Spec  inves,
  The  Inspector, Genéral,i  Déparnentti.cf  the  At  ronce,,  The Pe
Washington,  De  Co  If you  have further  observations  along
  this  line,  I  would  suggest  that  you  may  wish  to  com-
  municate  directly  with  him.

  Sincerely  yours,

  John  Edgar  Hoover
  Director

  Copy  by  form  to  Air  Force  Intelligence.  \
  \
  NOTE:  Special  Agent  Samuel  Hardy,  EOD  3-28-25,  GS-12,
  #8760,  assigned  to Minneapolis.  ace
  Special  Agent  Clinton  W.  Stein,  BOD.@-6-31,  GS-15,
  $10,800,  assigned  Division  II  as  inspectexs
  \

  RHD: grimfo  RS
  i  V  °  r  v2

G As Se | 4 : on ae
fo  /

  ony
  August  12,  1952

 Mrs.  Ora  AZ Tygrett
 c/o Lou Merlaw Farn
 Rural  Route  No.  1
 New  Palestine,  Indiana

 Dear  Mrs.  Tygrett:

  Your  letter  dated  July 31,  1952,  addressed  to  the
 War Department,  c/o Federal  Bureau of Investi  ation, has been
 received.

  Your  interest  in furnishing  your  observation  in
 this  regard  is  appreciated.

  In  view  of the  contents  of  your  communication
 which  also  appear  to  be of interest to the  Department  of
 the  Air  Force,  I have  taken the liberty of  furnishing
 that  Agency  a  copy  of  your  letter.

  Sincerely  yours,

  John  Edgar  Hoover
  Director

i" “COMM -FEI

l
igo  7  TVEREL
  August 13,  1952

  Director of Special Investigations
  The Inspector  General
  Department of the Air Force
  The Pentagon
  Washington 25,  De  Ceo

From:  John Edgar  Hoover, Director
  Federal  Bureau  of investigation

Subject:  FLYING DISKS

  There its  attached a Photostat of a  self
explanatory letter  dated August 5, 1952, at
Pontiac, Michigan, received by this  Bureau from
Mr. We He Jennings, 3096 Hazelmary,  Zone 17, Pontiac,
Michigan, relating to the captioned  matter.

  Mr. Jennings’  letter  has  been acknowledged
and  he  has  been  informed  that  a  copy  of  his  letter
has  been furnished
  to your  office for  appropriate
attention.  WNo  further  action  is  contemplated  in  this
matter  by  this  Bureau.

  RECORDED - 12  |

  There is no record identifiahle wi th: Jemings
in  the  files  of  the  Bureau

EHMske  5  ry  ep)

  wattle

  je  om
  st
  rm
new
  August 13,  1952

  Director of Special Investigations
  The Inspector General
  Department of the Atr force
  The Pentagon
  Washington 25,  De  C-~

From:  John Edgar Hoover, Director
  _Federal Bureau of Investigation

Sudjeet:  FLYING DISKS

  There  ts  attached  a  copy  of a  self
explanatory letter dated July 31, 1952, received
by this Bureau from Mr. Benedicto Romero, 1647
Park Avenue, New York City, relating to the
capttoned  matter.

  Mr. Romero's letter has been acknowledged (
and he has been informed that a copy of his letter
has been furnished to your oj/fice for appropriate
attention.  WNo further action is contemplated in
this  matter  by  this  Bureau.

  Bureau  ft
  bh e
  August ,  1952

  Director of Spectal Investigations
  The Inspector General
  Department of the Air Force
  The  Pentagon
  Washington 25,  De  Ceo

  From:  John  Sdgar  Hoover,  Director
  Federal  Bureau  of  Investigation

  Subject:  FLYING DISKS

  There  is  attached  a  copy  of a  self-
  explanatory  letter  dated  August  1,  1952,  received
  by  this  Bureau from Mrs.  Fred  Haufe,  606  Walnut
  Avenue,  Fairmont,  West  Virginia,  relating  to
  the  captioned  matter.

  Mrs.  Haufe's  letter  has  been  acknowledged
  and  she  has  been  informed  that  a  copy  of  her  letter
  has  been furnished  to  your  office  for  appropriate
  attention.  Wo  further  action  ts  contemplated  in
  this  matter  by  this  Bureau.

  Bureau  files  fail  to  refl
  be  identified  with  Mrs.

  sana

  ne

AUG 261952
  SERVICE UNIT é
  SEARCH SLIP
  Supervisor  speeded  Ov
  ee

Subjz<  Oo

——_Exact  Spelling
+All References
——Subversive Ref.
——Main File
——Restricted  to Locality of

FILE NUMBER  SERIALS

  Initialed
  Office Memorandum e UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT
  el

  To  :  MR. R. Te HAREO vA  G  DATE:  August 8, 1952

  FROM  :  @, F, DOWNING \\%

  EES et COMMUNICATION WRITTEN
  ‘eae LANG  RECEIVED BY
  -  “CINCINNATI ENQUIRER" PERTAINING
  TO "FLYING SAUCERS"
  SECURITY MATTER = X

  August 6, 1952, submitting an anonymous letter in German concerning 4  Bf hyperen
  Reference is  made to a letter from the Cincinnati Office dated  iy  ees

  so-called  "Flying Saucers."

  Attached are 7 copies of a translation of this German material  VWwr
  prepared in the Cryptanalysis-Translation Section.

  No reply has been made by us to the August 6, 1952,  letter  from
  Cincinnati.

  RECOM

  That  the Domestic Intelligence Division review the Cincinnati
  submission and accompanying Bureau translation, for appropriate handling,
  noting particularly a suggestion in  + paragraph  of  the Cincinnati
  letter to consider making this information available to other Governmental
  Agencies.  act

  62-8389),
  TWN: jen

  \ VAttachment  oad

58 SEP 2 1952
 HISIAIG AMGLVUORVT

2G. WY ¢o
  TRANSLATION FROM  GERMAN

  Flying Saucer,
  a weapon tested in 19h, which is probably now being produced in
  series,  and at this time causes a great stir, is a V-weapon which
  has @ round body similar  to a disk having a diameter  of about
  48-50 me  On the outer ring it has about 5-50 automatic circular
  nogzles which after the ignition of the disk circulate around a
  plexiglass sphere in the center in which the measuring and controlling
  devices for long-distance steering are located.  In the sphere is still
  sufficient space for atom bombs.  ‘These weapons are in iussian hands
  and can have an effective range of 30-35,000 km.  ‘The constructor of
  Veweapons RIEDEL in Germany stated that it concerns a typical V-weapon
  on which he had worked himself.  [I am sure that the truth is better
  than a panic among ignorant people.

  He  SCH.

OPIES DE  i
270°  NOV 19 1964
  7  per i rs 7

  espector  General
  ’  he  1S  os
  ;  4
  .  orce

  S AGENCIES
  APPROPRIDATOFF
  AND FIEL  ICES
  ADVISED BY ROUTY
  SLIP(S) OF.  Y
  DATES

ee
 ;  o
  Ly
  ile  Mossb  urg, Room 3708
  j  RH: ET1)
  PCCARA
  he  16 }
  1G
  ony
  if}
S2I MDa STAIAION
  TaE
Director, FBI

SAC, San Diego (100-8565)

BORDERLAND SCIENCES , RESEARCH ASSOCIATES
San Diegoy California;
MEAD LAYNE — Directors MAX  FREEDOM LONG - Director

Reference is made to San Diego letter dated 8-5-52 concerning the
captioned matter.

For the additional information of the Bureau, there is being transmitted herewith one copy each of the following which were made
available to me by FRANCIS OHM, who is a member of the captioned
organizations

  1.  Mimeographed letter consisting of four
  pages addressed to His  Excellency, The
  President of the United States.

  Mimeographed announcement consisting of
  three pages entitled "For Information of
  the Public — and the Sake of the Record —
  A Synopsis of Important Data".

Enclosure (2)
JES 8 jee

  py
  NOT FECORDED
  M47SEP  3 1952
  FILED

  ORIGINAL
  August 22,  1952

RECORDED - 88 Ars wii tihlde }rmvtelO
  Route 3
  Jackson,  Minnesota

  88 Dear Mr. Hof fmeyer:
  Your letter postmarked August 15,  1952,
  together  with enclosure,  has  been  recetued,  and  I
  want  to  thank  you for  bringing  this  matter  to  imy
  attention.

  Inasmuch  as  the  contents  of your  communt-
  catton  do  not  reflect  any  violation  within  the
  Jurisdiction  of  this  Bureau,  I  am  unable  to  comply
  with  your  request.

  I  am  taking  the  liberty  of forwarding a
  copy of your  letterand  your original enclosure to
  the Director  of Special  Investigations, The Inspector
  veneral,  Department  of the Air  Force,  The  Pentagon,
  Washington 25, Ds C., since  these  matters  may  be  of
  interest to that agency.

  Sineerely  yours,

  John Edgar Hoover
  Director

  Copy  of  incoming  to  Dept.  of Air  Force.

  NOTE:  In vie  f correspondens 's) reifidp eRe to a."steady white
  light" circli  their farm, his letter water is being r  rred
  Force. branch thteneshed,in matters of this type.
  C:  2 SI  enclosure  was q fumple  of what appeared to be
  shredded  1  strips  of  tin-fotle

  LH: mnfin
UG. Hd 68 S22 884
q9119AF-30 1430'S 8

  WOO! TeWegIAIIIAE
  cf
  i  Z
  @  ,

  a
  lO

  Loaf

  g

  =

  E

E
  oo
iN

 ‘
  aa)
ESA at raga $f
  Paa
  GsAI="

ig. Hace 1  OLS
  sanof  Un
  *
TRUE COPY

  Jackson  Minn
  Aug  2,  1952

J.  Edgar  Hoover
Federal  bureau  of Investigation,
Washington,  D.  Ce

Dear  Mr  Hoover:

  I don't know  if you analyze  articles  so  will
send you a sample of (something that looks like tinsel)
because my uncle found it in a pasture in a round pile,
underneath of it, it looks as tho the clover was burned,
&@ there are 3 similar patches which are burned ina
triangle  form.  Last  Sunday  Morning  the  Neighbors  Wife
got  up  to  get  a  drink  of water &  happned  to  see  a  steady
white Light  circling their farm,  but  didn't pay any
attention to  it.  Than  Sunday  morn.  when  my  uncle  went
to  get  the  cows,  he  saw this  stuff shining  in the  Sun
light.  It  couldn't of been  dropped out of a  plane  as  it
was  loose  &  not  in  a  container  &  the  nearest  road  is
about a # mile  from the pasture & now we are  wondering
what  it  is.  So  would  like  to  have  you  analyze  it  & let
me  know.

  Sincerely  yours,

  /s/ Wm Hof fmeyer
  3 //
  August  20,  1952

 RECORDED - 126
  INDEXED  26
  Ur, John  EefLang
  1413 South Vermont
  Los  Angeles  6,  California

  Dear  Mr.  Lang:

& . 73 and I want Your letter of August 12, 1952, has been received
  you to know that I apprectate the interest
  prompting  you  to  bring  your  observations  to  my  attention.

  Inasmuch as the matter to which you refer is  of
  interest  to the United States Air Force authorities, I  am
  taking the liberty of making a copy of  your communication
  avatlable to The Honorable, The Secretary of the Air Force,
  The  Pentagon, Washington  » De Co

  Sincerely  yours,

  John  Edgar  Hoover
  Director

  LHsgribkh
RECORDED 198
  &
  oe
  August 5,  1952

  SAC,  San Diego

  BORDERLAND SCIENCES,  RESEARCH  ASSOCIATES
  Sean Diego,  Californias; MEAD LAYNE, Director}
  MAX FREEDOM LONG,  Director

  Ty)Wwiew of the current hysteria concerning the
  so-called  "flying saucers", I thought that the Bureau
  might be interested in the following information concern=
  ing the  captioned organization.

  I  am transmitting herewith certain literature con-
  cerning the captioned organization which was furnished to
  me by FRANCIS OHM, who operates the Businessmens Assurance
  Company in San Diego and who has his office in the same
  building housing the FBI office,

  It is of interest to note that on Friday,  August Pj)
  1952, at approximately 12:00’noon, FRANCIS OHM asked to se@
  me urgently, which I did.  As  a member of the captioned  f
  organization,  he advised me that they were having  a meeti
  at 1:00 PM the same  day,  inasmuch as they had been advise
  that they had some very important information to discuss.
  He went on to relate that through the means utilized by h:'
  organization (which the enclosed literature will reflect
  borders on the occult), they were able to prognosticate
  well in  advance the recent earthquake which occurred in
  Tehachapi,  California.  He  advised that  they have  also
  been  able to obtain the following informations:

  1.  That  a very severe tidal wave will hit the
  Pacific Ocean sometime in the not too remote future and
  that most of the Japanese Islends will be washed away
  end disappear.

  2.  That all fishes with scales in Japanese
  waters will  soon leave these waters for other destina-
  tions,  in view of the oncoming tidal wave.

  3.  That  this tidal wave will wash away the
  Hawaiian Islands.

  4.  Thet the West Coast of the United States will
  likewise be affected by this tidal wave.

  5.  That they prognosticated the appearance of
  a new island in the Pacific which was published in the
  newspapers within  the  past  week,

  JFStha

“i SEP Far952
Direcotr, FBI

Re:  BORDERLAND  SCIENCES,  RESEARCH ASSOCIATES
  San Diego,  California;  MEAD LAYNE,  Director;
  MAX FREEDOM LONG,  Director

  6.  That the flying saucers  are not fantasies; that
they  are factual and actual; that his associates in the captioned
organization have been in conversation with the men operating
the flying saucers, and that they have asked that high officials
of  the U.  S.  Government be informed that they are here on our
planet on a peaceful mission and that they are not on a warlike
mission.  However, if the U. S. Government continues to send
planes  after these  flying  saucers  and if these planes fire on
the flying saucers, they have disintegrators which they will
utilize and which will disintegrate these plmes completely in
no time flat.

  Mr. OHM requested that either I myself attend the
meeting  at  1:00 PM or that I designate a stenographer to attend
the  meeting,  so  that  she  could  take down  all  the  minutes  of  the
meeting,  I told him that uwnfortwmately this was very short
notice, that I had another commitment and that our stenographers
were  pretty well occupied at that time.  He said  he would  advise
me  of  anything important that might transpire at  the  meeting.  k
As of August  2,  1952,  he has not advised me of anything which
transpired  at  the  meeting.  k

  I  should  like to point out that OHM appears to be
a perfectly sane,  sound individual;  he  operates  a very large
insurance business  in San Diego,  and  is  convinced in his  ow
mind  of the  efficacy of this  organization.

  No  investigation is being conducted concerning this
matter  and  I  do not contemplate attending any meetings of this
organization,
  August 25,  1952

RECORDED-14
  Mr.  Co  Sei Lhoinski

  EXED-4.
  Koshkonon
  es Missourt
  Dear  Mr.  Chotnskis:

  ee  Your  letter  dated August  14,  1952,  has  been
  recetved,  and I want to thank you for affording me  the
  benefit  of your  observations.

  Inasmuch  as  the  matter  to  which  you  refer
  is of interest to another governmental ayency, I am
  taking the liberty of forwarding a copy of your com=-
  nintcation to the Director of Special Investigations,
  fhe Inspector General, Department of the Air Force,
  Lhe  Pentagon,  Washington  25,  De  Ce.

  Sincerely  yours,

  John  Edgar  Hoover
  Director

  Copy of incoming sent to the Director of Special
  Investigations, the Inspector General, Department  of
  the Air Force,  by form  letter.

  &

  LH:pazbkh  A
  f ay,
  (\
JONSAT a0  1d30 Sf

  if
  G3Ai4

Ged TS  §f aii;
  SINOf-UW
 STANDARD FORM No, 64  s  e

  Office Memorandum ¢ UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT
 TO  : Mr. Ae He afingk)  DATE: August 22, 1952
  )

 FROM  :  Mre
  =  alr
  We  Ae  puseiges 7)  Al ee

 SUBJECT:  FLYING  DISCS  a

  PURPOSE:

  To recommend existing  instructions to the field
  re flying discs be called to  the attention of the
  field.

  BACKGROUND:

  A  review of  communications  received from  the
  field  indicates  they  are  not  observing  existing
  instructions  contained  in  Bureau  Bulletin #57,  para=
  graph D,  dated 10/1/47, and SAC Letter #88, dated
  3/25/49,  to refer details of complaints regarding
  flying  saucers  to  OSI  locally.

  ACTION:

  It is  recommended  the  attached  SAC  Letter
  be  issued.

  _Euer eens a
  /

  RECORDED - 34

  » 499,

71 SEP 101952
  ‘STANDARD FORM NO. 64  *  @

  Office Memorandum * UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT
  To  :  A.  H.  BEByONA  )  DATE: ~ August  18,  1952
  From ;  W. A. BRAN POqhkt
  SUBJECT:  FLYING  DISCS

  PURPOSE:

  To advise  all  Supervisors  engaged  on  night
  duty  of  instructions  concerning  the  referral  of
  flying disc  information  to  OSI.

  BACKGROUND:

  Captain  William  Deegan,  OSI,  4th  Air  Force
  Base,  Bowling  Field,  has  requested  that  any  information
  concerning the  sighting of flying discs  (saucers,  etc.)
  be  telephonically  furnished  immediately  to  his  office,
  day  or  night,  by  dialling Code  1261,  and  asking  for
  Extension  509.  Captain  Deegan  advised  the  Air  Force
  ts  greatly  concerned  about  the  captioned  matter,  and
  would appreciate the Bureau's cooperation in  immediately
  advising of details received concerning such  compldints.

  ACTION:

  It  its  recommended  a  copy  of  this  memorandum
  be  filed  in  the  night  and  week-end  Supervisor's  book  7
  in  your  office  for  their  information.  D

  FHM :drg  ‘\

58 SEP 18 1982
(c) CRLYING DISCS -- Reference is made to Bureau Bulletin #57,
Paragraph D, dated October 1, 1947, and SAC Letter #38, dated
March 25,  1949,  in the captioned matter,

  It is noted that some Bureau field offices are not furnishing to OSI locally complaints regarding flying discs, pursuan
  t
to existing Bureau instructions,

  Upon receipt of information by your office relating
  to
the sighting of a flying disc, you should endeavor
  to determine
from the complainant details of the type referr
  ed to in the Air
Force berate ~ | which was furnished to your office as an enclosu
  re
to SAC Letter #3  The information should then be promptly furnished to OSI locally by your office,  As you are aware, the investigation of so-called flying discs is the responsibility
  of the
Department  of  the  Air Force,

  /

  IN

  FILED

  Not RECORDED
  go SEP  3  1952
  ORIGINAL
  = StAvTaRD FORM NO. 64  r  -  }

Mi  Office Metin wnwdAUM + UNITED SYATES GOVERNMENT
  To  y  UR.  HARBO ft  DATE:  August 29,  1952

  FROM  :  D. J. PARSONS 7  i
  SUBJECT:  UNIDENTIFIED FLYING OBJECT
  ALLEGEDLY CITED  BY MR,
  FLORIDA
  D.  DESVERGERS,  \e
  WEST PALM BEACH,

  By letter of August 26,  1952,  the Air Force  requested
  ‘Tele. Room___
  that we examine the cap of Mr. Desvergers, a scoutmaster

  unidentified flying object in a desolate area, He report 1G ney
  at West Palm Beach, Florida, who claims that he observed a

  that upon his investigation, a MBB object 30 feet in diam ote
  hovered over his head and shot a "red blob” which aus eae n Tuer eoa
  lose consciousness. The cap has some holes burned in it andThex /
  is reported that the hair on Desvergers' arms was singed.
  Air Force  requested that we determine,  if possible,  from any
  residues left the nature of the residual material.

  The Air  Force desires an  oral  report on  this  tonight.
  We have finished the exzamination and are preparing to advise  the
  Air  Force  as  follows:

  1.  There is no residue which would permit a determination
  as to the nature of the material which caused the burns in the
  cap.  In addition to the obvious burns, there is one minute burned
  area which is probably too small to have been caused intentionally
  but  more  likely  by a  small  hot  ember,

  2.  The  bill  and a  large part  of  the  edges  of  the  cap
  are singed but the singeing is not uniform as would be expected
  if it had been caused at one time by a single flash of flame,  The
  front edge of the cap  bill  is more severely singed than other
  portions of the cap.  This  condition would not be expected if the
  source  of  the flame  was  directly overhead,

  3.  When  the  cap  is  observed from the front,the  left
  edge of the insignia and the fold in the blue cloth, there is an
  absence of singeing noted under the fold suggesting the possibility
  that the cap was not being worn when the singeing took place.
  It is noted that this fold "smooths out" when the cap is placed
  on  the  head.

  RECOMMENDATION:  That in response to the request,  of Colonel Free
  jof  the Air Force,  it  is  recommended  that he  be
  ekg Se  ( ‘orally advised of the above.  off)
  I- OBX30Ni  Ons
  DJP/mek

  te,
Ge HdOTG 2 33S
  September  ll,  1952

  Mr, Rog’ Glwell
  Roadstown,  New  Jersey

  Dear  Ure  Elwell:

  Your letter postmarked September 6, 1952,
  has  been  received, and I appreciate the interest
  prompting  you  to  let  me  have  the  benefit  of  your
  observations,

  Since  the  contents  of your  communication
  may  be  of  interest  to  other  governmental  agencies,
  I  am  taking  the  liberty  of  forwarding copies  of  it
  to  the  Administrator  of  Civtl  Aeronautics,  Civil
  Aeronautics  Administration,  Department  of Commeroes
  Washington,  D,  C.y  and  to  The  Honorable, The Secretary
  of  Defense,  The  Pentagon,  Washington,  D.  C.

  Sineerely  yours,
  n

  ,  John  Edgar Hoover
  py  Director
 ,  £2”  “Copy by form sent to  Civil Aeronautics Administration
{\j\o- / spCopy by form sent to Secretary of Defense  3
Wg  DICsimz
  ) ae  av
  drt
  'f

  val, Bb wreaw % nye ; a
  areaeatatt |
  4
  =
et oe
  to wrote ees akout AW  eda

  Ome aera alot Oe 5 Aaa-
  Lhe ey le he felling Gewrd
:  /  AY,  YM  MWerr

  ‘a  Ay.

NYSS imm
  edia
  tly
  Mitr
  ay ae
  ad
  bra
  y
  MR.  JONES

‘rp A  457 PKA
  aay

 RECEIVED  s

  $ DEP J WUSTICE
  FR

US$  DE
  M o n e s A e q e m s (2 3
i Atay
  Z Lo k bi i f bg an 7
 V0ew soie ae jet L AL 035
 At bree dt wad muvb 4  at 3
  fac Lye AVGHN prntiie") AP JAW Ct Mor.
 .  QA anew above 70 Asal Apr
 Aah den  es Rie nord fd
  had ten!TOG
  gpg ooaefod
  ON eulin
  hitebedd athemOomna ard1 beo
  owee Yor pre Con errnegl
  felt Av
  eo aad  1  herr S

  tp a)eetbD
  pakS den  ie  te Cine
  eeLo.HarnSow  a
  sad
 bs fh Bae Yaw aie ee Pe
  Are gee 4 rete.dae
  De LaatML ¢ Thay ot ae
  es ne COVEhep a
 Ct Ke ty  D oars stud  @
e
 og ni . Char Leo med ol
ih Baiadrt, Lhu fhe fells
  e  - olewre  0» aoe : oa 6 Oyeure
  \

ww  Ree ie attharcté,  Lae Ae thon.
Lue jrpetledl bole Pwr epoe
qurh ‘Full ar d a4 Le
  Ue ate . tae: Baa
Mache uA Bd hike |estes ee
Aud  qd. Gtk ard wukek
and hd AHALL.DM _and bith
ees -
  BPaprw Manhree of row CR att
yavyspendid Av Mid Aer,
ey7 pales “ Tha 02 Av vel
dering elikdee.
 Caries TDene,mp
  ae eee
  gnule poe
 rod ane
  loal,
  get 1b out f eae
  ¢

  somadl bye ria bo i.
  y an %
  ome
  = fa
  CO navity
  CH  Com  Ae (3 PRS wx  Ae  (6)
: ite Cacia oP 4 ee
Awe rulhe alf ot V ys  1A AL
uf rhe: (4 'e 2) Dr.
  :  WY Ala Cerlaine a
  t f i te - d
and O~A- S
  & Hie af
  wre [i
ait ah

  4 S o e
  OL C- L/VAne, (A plar ae
  I& ae pocAe,
  pat “of he& KD brtlaine 3 wy
  al “Ce ,Wmaeam
  I-A.
  k aarteahfh
  Crylarw  In.AviA pefa
  }

  O  T  ge c
  im e a t s  a lt a  c e
  e  a
  a ll
  mn
  c y  A  h e e  fA a  d
  e e  F. Gb  &VA a be t
  w t
  e pa, 6 n\- :
  AafheLeflot tL rbvtyrCoeeritViaee, wacst conto } WY
  fP a p art

  F Seaoe a td Aeth C2Vivrie CReSp ae Wee
  is hipre Pied a Attia. OS as
  AN d Phot fv By Pore ce Centirwy 6h (he
  fall & whAn Atrfoce Or ane purned
  wy
  the - wf Qw ANr4 Aare mutirar o-
  Lt Ah
  Ds ets  @. vA ta- Cera. JHIUNM«“ (CE
 Cw  ne Lhe. For cyan it
  fe be
  ptewethu
BespSOe hirl,Oe:  Ou" ssnw hs
 fury, Oe  ry  lA m17~-e
  WAty,
 Cd ds  “YY  ee thaw rr tape
  ov (ru a akQ Kevas, &
  Wr AMY otk, put _ A
  ty ek Mtr"g  y,

  A{ferine  peje
  d

  TSAt RS pe Oe “A Ma Cha _
  wad + ( AAA  x
  (-
  ppl Arn (wee Lt avrae Se
  as Olu are0 eees
  tr it e e e  Ru th sw  je
  rte Por the Wea 7) Pe, Poe esSart c
  pe AS  bora’
  ao 6) ? ba VL #
  thd an Cantina brad Grout  ty
  noha Sy to Jerlaide thar AAV
  pthwre |Clewwk.  f
  UY Lach(RlinteAad Be
  CAimefeLMurr— h CeFee A- Wren would
  wee  Jk OW Bar ( hey Ween a
  emu Be Jaen AL A 1 seal ho ee
  Apes ow coh  Liotax per ie Pika)
  Apured put ff  mM ion Sf ceo,
  She Call G fp Wore to  &
  ets pith preter Year Earths
  But
  nb 4 od Noe Bask ce uciWy] q
awe  iW  ad Reh  5
  ene  -  Yat
eeAAWaLeon,
  rp  we7 the
  aaUf)y
fre cond)ie
  peered
  fe sulle
aloie [eng iTobeoth
  v7)  oh ore aikh—

Fie
  takCaP
  fe tgpo  Laing
  Teel, ow Orta ee Oey |
 ‘fect
  x.
  t5

ticad,  ww Lec  Ge ae.
oe
  Lae 4Amel  Mate sma.
  64  ppd  Gets
‘ymiurh Grratu$ thane ite ek:,  Mea
(Pull Carre Weghwv tide Avr pw
Cah har the. ower? Lf Wh, ‘Ve Pages 26-tes a We fa F ati Cher Th Path
rf Aesge  San Sie ee x Saaattatr a
  PA
Dota dei Kone] oe erties “wets ee
Anrde ‘iregen  RS at oe tes
Cae, TAn  Plt dj eon
Ate mes  tp, aol pon re a
  C

aie oe Rut ples, He
SWWwery yey  oe = Pe
UoNen  around ea  Liu  pot
 iAL Ll 0 lochud wars Cartan (> (ir LL ar
 hig ae AV { Ate e4 CuFWtCOIMeL he  r
am pow
c  Wh
  |dt
  O  -m  b ar
 Puiesnk roy’ 4+ hekde ah asapie‘ n
  )c ov tha  G  l
  ene  y
 th wh  Chore We Wrens, uy  Cem Gy Ou ere
  prr  all  &  hod
  DYats hy from VL
  wa
  ra ce .
  ee
  Pe Th s He Lulu s
  abe yeeaarowTh phe, Pela &  i
  4°1 OVvad of £ CliniAL—¢ GA\  .
  The Earth Vite weld trek weate
  7 SSgk
  tél j

  Cat h A Y (W w a y e a i
  iyy

  et  ae  x
  JI haw worked

  lp a A  h  i  c o o r
and RuVie) al clew. t-Dos reapef “rt  far é  a  qe

 SAW to aAroe prem Afra: e cs
  D Unk  Khe  prwlrnr  ACh.

a oe + F ha “a a: VL otReco fes
 its  thee  toed  - Arpite (Ce athe
  0  oe

swrhk ee  4.

 LXAS AWC t
 x  WI ;A ss  Zz  J
  AON  VAI fd A
 )
  as Ut  Wate. Pia

fu .mae AVY Lae ge 7
Aa  othpL [pe - L- Ay-t eS ak VA4-OY i
  rp

  Acn Le io i 4 aey oe gbA
SH “to het » ee2 fa ia a pM
ponteKas  oe  Merve  f

ard,if io fee, andAorg.bv!Y Lhe ae
  ie" he the f- we ve ps
Hur
“Vr4  v
  A wey b esWy
the ee st BLih Bhi 4aJEN, rf
"GGA? ha pov a te Se,
  i: ei teas
Pmasiwehse y!Ces Be

I. ph | in witsa7th. oes,
bled ta 49mukrie Uhec By“ia
Due Ah  av  or hed  liny (Wuhan
 awe Yhe met; p.&¢ie ab get onl
 Ve ORE Cag  ee  AO fh Qt
  eae
  Dhar; alll Gb ee ails seit se
 ALaMS yfpore Cedainng Aveie  a

 ifn  “i  ae ad  Lae
  “witfe e—
 4he. esme tyffrtaA140e
  wee a!
  ins hegr
 fee fp
  AMAN k, APY L VL— Lau  9) A944
ee a ae  é  @
Office Memorandum + onitep STATES GOVERNMENT
TO  5.  Mie SENS He Be1fdhte.  DATE:  September 20,  1952

FROM  :  OC. Ee Hennricl( 7
SUBJECT:  STRANGE WHITE OBJECT SEEN OVER
  MONTANA ON met area 19, 1952  re
  MK  4
  I_talked wth  ASAC Plaxico..of Butte on September 20,
  re the attached“news releases indicating that the FBI
  was investigating a strange white object which reportedly
  streaked across the sky of Montana for about one hundred
  miles.  Mr. Plaxico stated that while a report of this
  object had been received at the Butte Office, that no
  investigation was conducted regarding the matter and  that
  none was contemplated.

  ACTION:

  For  your  information.

  Attachment

  \
  CEH:meh

GO Gi 6 1957
STANDARD FORM NO. 64

  REMTIAT

  DIRECTOR,  1]  Bere?  10/9/52

  SAC,  NEWARK  (100-36998

  RE:  SPECIAL INQUIRY
  UNIDENTIFIED AERIAL  OBJECTS;
  Inspector  General,  USAF  f
  2nd District Office or epecial Investigations
  New York 4, New York Fliving IS
  67 Broad Street  j
  S  >
  A
  For  the  information  of  the  Bureau,  on  August  251952,
  the  Newark  division  received  a  request  from  the  Inspector  General,
  United  States  Air  Force,  2nd  District  Office  of  Special  Investi-
  gations, 67 Broad Street, New York 4, New \York, that the back-
  ground of a civilian photographer, JOHN By-RILEY, 571 Main Street,
  Paterson,  N.  J.,  and  of  GEORGE i  ovata  21 Brooks Avenue, Passaic,
  N.  Je,  be  investigated  in  an  attempt to determine their reliability
  in  view  of  the  fact  that  they  had  allegedly  observed  and  photo-
  grephed  an  unidentified  aerial  object  on  July  31,  1952.

  ee  appropriat  -Pedit  and  criminal  checks  were  made  in
  this  mea  as wel]  1]  :  ei‘ehborhood inguiries as to both
  indi aealeand no informati  iS received that either individual
  had criminal records or that Soy were known in the past to have
  perpetrated  any  kind  of  fraud.

  was  ascertained  that  STOCK  did  photograph  an  allegedly
  unidentifi  aerial  object  and  that  RILEY  witnessed ee  incident
  and develoned and hg tte the exposed film which we subsequently
  forwarded t “ne oti OSI District, Air Technical Intel ligence
  Center,  Wrig}  a  verson Air  Force  Ba  ir, CHARLES  GREGG,
  staff eater  the  Herald News, P
  ne  equested  that  the  photographer  and
  the witness be. ques tioned i  the circumstances under which the
  ohotographs  were  taken and  the  an  attempt  be  made  to  locate
  other  sources  in  one  areé  iat  might  determine  the  authenticity
  of  the  photos.  No  atioi  f  this  type  was  made  by  the
  Newark  division.

  In accordance with SAC letter #83, Series 1952 dated
  8/29/52,  the results of the credit and criminal checks >and the
  ©

  neighborhood  investigations  were  forwarded  to  the  local  OSI
  Office,  New  York  City  and  no  further  investigations  have  been
  made  by  this  office.  /-  2

  O APPROPRIATE AGENCIES  :
  AND FIELD OFFICES  is  INDEXER
  ADVIS
  BY ROUT
  ED  ING  Nia  nas
  SLIP(S) OF__  1)
  -
  _~4

  ATE
Frep. J.  EEK HOUT  ip.

49,STADHOUDERSLAAN

  THE HAGUE  T  HAGUE,  October  6th
  THE  NETHERLANDS

  nent  of  Justice
  Bureau  of  Investigation
  vania  Avenue
  NGTON

  In  the  care  of  Mr  Bailey

  Bailey,

  excuse  me  please  if  I  misspelled  your  name,  but
  saw  it  in  writing.
  On  May  5th  at  2.15P.M.  of  this  year  I  paid  you
  in  the  ?.B.I.offices,  where  I  told  you  details  on
  rtain
  subject you will surely remember. At the end of
  conversation I_promissed you not to taik sbout
  it un-
  til I had received word from you wh  the proper
  authorities  were interested. It was taken for granted that
  a few months might  elapse before  the  answer  could  be given.
  Five months have passed  by since then, and as
  the subject has now become active in Europe, I am really
  anxious to go ahead with it, I have ofcourse tried to
  check the theory on eachvaspect and while doing so I
  found various complementary as well as fundamental details
  I  have  now  reached  the  point  however  where  I
  would  like  to  discuss  the  whole  with  an  expert  and  T
  would  thsrefor  certainly  appreciate  to  know whether  I  have
  to consider our agreement on comolete silence as still
  being valid  and necessary  or  not
  It might be that you are too busy to be able to  ,
  write  to  me  of  that  the  authorities  are  not  interested.  As Lb
  it  is  not  intention  to  bother  you  too  much  with  it,  I
  will take it that there  3  no  longer  any necessity  for
  silence on my part if  io  not  receive any  in?ormation  to
  the  contrary  by  the  end  of  this  month,_
  By  this’  propos  on I do not intend to  force
  issue  but  I  would  like  to  discuss a ‘siibjectlike  this with
  scientists  friends  of  mine,  which,J  cannot  do  as  long  as  I
  am  bound  ba my  promise  to  you.  i
  With  very  kind  regards,  N
  Yours’ Truly
  etober
  Oct  10,  1952  AIR  MAIL

 RECORDED - B
  ur. Fred  Jorfekhout 1
  ‘é  o2
WK
  ,9 Stadhoude
 gf - AOThe Hague
  rslaan

  The  Netherlands

  Béd> ur. Eekhouts:
  Your  letter  dated  October 6,  1952,  has  been
  recéived.

  You will  perhaps  recall being advised at the
  time  of  your visit  to this  Bureau that the matter discussed
  was  not  within the  jurisdiction  of the FBI.  However, in
  view of your  imminent departure from Washington the  infor-
  mation was accepted for transmittal  to the appropriate
  agency, which was to contact you if  interested.

  Full  details  were  made  available  at  that  time  to
  the  Department  of  the Air Force for  evaluation  and  consider-
  ation.  In the absence of some arrangement  between you and
  the Air Force, your further use of the pertinent facts  is,
  of course, a matter for your own determination.

  Sincerely  yours,

  John  Edgar  Hoover
  Director
  NOTE ON  YELLOW:
  Bulet to OSI, Air Force, Gated 5-7-52 transmitted data
  furnished by Lekhout to the Bureau 5-5-52 concerning his ideas
  as to plans for a workable flying disc.  Eekhout was informed
  t  ‘urther contact with him, if any, would come from the
  interested Government agency rather than the Bureau.  No mention
  was made of his  eping the facts secret pending a reply from
  the  Bureau or  the Air  Forces

  2 srdmn\

  2) 992,
  e DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR aA
  HEADQUARTERS UNITED STATES AIR FORCE

  WASHINGTON 25, D. C.

  30 September 1952

  MEMORANDUM FOR:  MR.  OX  tech, ge Prep eeate
  SUBJECT:  Comments  on Article  in The  NEW YORKER

  1.  A call was made to the Air Technical Intelligence Center,
  1330 this date,  (Captain Ruppelt)  regarding
  the attached article.
  Ban el
  26  ATIC did not in any way indicate to Mr Lang that the
  FBI has an interest in flying saucers.  Furthermore,  Captain
  Ruppelt stated that the FBI to his knowledge has never been called
  upon to furnish reports on@lying saucers.  ATIC is under the
  impression that Mr. Lang made the story
  up or picked it up from
  a magazine  or newspaper article sometime back that definitely
  was  not associated with  their organization.

  3.  ATIC suggests that you check further with Mr. Al Chop,
  Office of Public Information, and perhaps he can supply you with
  the information you have requested.

  IN
  *  jf
  1 Incl:  C.  M. YOUNG  FILED
  Article  fr NEW YORKER,  Colone¥,  USAF
  dtd Sept 6, 1952  Chief  Policy &  Wanagement Group
  Directorate  of  Intelligence
  copy

  UNRECORDED

60 OCT 29 1982!
CD APELARE
  DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE
  OFFICE OF PUBLIC INFORMATION
  WASHINGTON 25, D.C.

  s
  Qeiphefrom lun
  USD  Ne
  —

  The following information concerning Air Force investigations of unusual
aerial phenomena is submitted in answer to your request,

  In the Fall of 1947 the United States Air Force took officiel notice of
reports of so-called “flying saucers” becanse the reports from the public
indicated that the problem might be related te the Air Force responsibility for
the air defense of the United States.

  On December 30, 19k7 the Air Foree dtrected its Air Materiel Comand , at
Wright-Patterson Air Force Base, Dayton, Ohio, to set up a project tocollect and
evaluate all available facts concerning “flying saucer” sightings.
  {To perform this task the Air Materiel Command obtained the services of
civilian end military astronomers, psychologists, electronic specialists,
meteorologists, aeronautical engineers, and physicists.
  On December 27, 1989, after 375 reported sightings had been investi gated, the
Air Force, with the concurrence of the Army and the Navy, announced the findings
of the "flying saucer" project.

  The evidence at that time indicated that the majority of the reports  of
unidentified flying objects could be accoun ted for aa misint erpret ations of
warious conventional objects, a mild form of hysteria, meteorological phenomena,
light aberrations, or lroaxes,

  There remained, however, a number of unexplained sightings, and the  Air
Force has continued its investigation s  inasmu ch as it is an Air Foree  respon si-
Dility to identify and analyze aerial  phenom ena that could possib ly be a menace
to the United States.

  Subsequent to December 19h9, these investigations have been conducted as
a normal intelligence function, rather than a special project, by the Air
Technical Intelligence Center, Wright-Patterson Air Force Base, Dayton, Qhio.

  C2Z- §3579-GIH
  2  ee
  To date, the Air Force has undertaken to investigate and analyze -about
1500 reports dealing with these phenomena. As before, most of the reports were
identified and disposed of as friendly aircraft erroneously reported, known
electronic and meteorological phenomena, light aberrations, hoaxes, and other
kmown natural occurrences or man-made objects.

  The unexplained reports, however, which are in the order of 20 percent of
the total, cannot be definitely associated with these familiar things.

  Difficulty in Evaluating Reports

  The difficulty in disposing of these unexplained reports is based largely
upon the insufficiency of accurate basic data such as size, shape, composition
and flight characteristics (speed, acceleration, altitude, exact maneuver pattern,
etc.) of the objects.

  Although some instruments which are useful in obtaining more accurate data
of this type have been available, tho reports based on sightings with these
instruments have been very infrequent and comprise an extremely small percentage
of the total, Moreover, even these reports have not included much of the
information required.

  Because of the inadequacy of this basic data, the Air Force has in the past
devoted its efforts primarily to determining whether these unexplained sightings
indicated the existence of a menace to the United States. Initially it was
Delieved that some pattern might evolve from the study of a large volume of
reports.  To date, no pattern has materialized to reveal anything whatsoever
which can be interpreted as indicative of purpose or consistency or which can be
construed as a menace to the United States. Nonetheless, since these unexplained
sightings persist, the Air Force will continue its investigations, giving the
problem adequate but not frantic attention,

  It is now felt, however, that reports from people whose training and
experience in observing acrial objects qualify them to obtain essential data
are the only ones likely to produce material suitable for systematic analysis.
The Air Force is planning to provide additional tools to help these observers
obtain the basic data it needs.

  Reports of similar phenomena go back to Biblical times. There have been
flurries of them in various centuries, The current series of sightings began
generally in 19h6,

  There are many reasons why the volume of these reports has increased
materially during the past fow years.  Aerial activity originated by man has
increased, and people today have a greater curiosity about this activity than
before. Also, our present efficient communication facilitios and news media
provide an incentive for reporting unusual observations, for publicizing thom
and for recording them. However, the ability to measure these phenomena does
not seem to have advanced in step with opportunities for observing them. The
Air Force believes that most of these phenomena will gradually be understood
as more is known about occurrences in the upper atmosphore.

  oe
  bal  |  Sourte of Reports
  ee
  The majority of reports of aerial phonomena have come from civilians,  About
8 percent come from civil airlines pilots, while approximately 25 percent aro
reported by military personnel.  Reports have been received also from highly
qualified scientists, Although primary significance is attached to reports from
qualified observers, there is no intention to discredit untrainod observors.

  Radar Sightings
  The Air Force has received many reports of unusual images on radar scopes.
It is fairly well established that some of these images are ground objects
reflected from a layer of warm air above the carth (a temporature inversion).
  Temperature inversion reflections can give a return on a radar scope that
is as sharp as that received from an aircraft,  Speed ranges of these returns
are reportedly from zero to fantastic specds.  The "objects" also appear to move
in all directions.

  Such radar sightings have resulted in hundreds of fruitless intercept
efforts.

  One scientific theory holds that light can be similarly reflected from a
layer of warm air above the earth and, if proven to be correct, this could
account for some visual sightings.

  Bearing out the theory of temperature inversion reflection is an incident
which occurred in January 1951 near Oakridge, Tennesseo. Two Air Force aircraft
attempted to intercept an unidentified "object" and actually established a radar
"lock" on the object. Their altitudo at the time was 7,000 fect. The unidentifia.
object, according to their radar, appeared to be at an elevation of ten to 25
degrees. Three passes were made in an attempt to close on the object. In each
instance the pilots reported that thoir radar led thom first upward and then
down toward a specific point on the ground.

  Ionized clouds are believed to be the cause of some unidontifiod radar
returns, Thunderstorm activity is identifiable by radar, and radar is used for
the purpose of avoiding thunderstorms, In addition, radar has picked up many
objects first reported as “unidentified phenomena" which were later identified
as aircraft, birds, balloons, ice formations in the air, or other mown aerial
objects or manifestations,

  Policy Regarding Attempted Interception

  No orders have been issued by the Air Defense Command to its fighter units
to fire on unidentified aerial phenomena, The Air Defonse Command is charged
with air defense of the United States, and its mission is to attack anything
airborne which 49 known or appoars to be hootile.  This should not bo intorproted
to moan that ow pilots will firo haphagsardly on anything thet flies.

  -3-
  Attempts at interception are not made every time that unidentified images
appear bricfly on an Air Force radar-scope.  Current Air Force interceptors are
short-range, short-duration, high-speed aircraft and can be omployed most
effectively when it is possible to track a target by visual or radar means
so that its position in the air at some future time may be predicted with a
reasonable degree of accuracy,

  Methods of Evaluating

  The first step in evaluating sightings of unusual aerial phonomona is to
collect all available data and check it against known airborne objects such as
palloons, aircraft, missiles, meteors, and weathor phenomena, If still unexplained,
reports from reliable sources, with sufficient details, are turned over to
specialists in various sciontific fields for further analysis.

  Future Plans for Eyaluating
  As stated earlier, there is a need for better reports from trained observers
using adequate equipment, The Air Force intends to implement its present study
with instruments wherever possible,

  The recent dovelopmont of special photographic equipment may make it possible
to gather data hitherto unobtainable through ordinary photographic methods. This
equipmont consists of a diffraction grating camera which separates light into its
component parts (spectrum) and rogisters thom on film, Tho principle involved is
that used by astronomers in determining the composition of the stars, In this
manner Air Force scientists may be able to detormine the characteristics of the
phenomena and subsequently identify the source,

  Another proposal involves the use of a continuously operating Schmidt
telescope equipped with a camore.  This telescope has a wide aperture lens and
4s capable of covering a cone of 150 degreos or nearly the whole sky from horizon
to horizon. This equipmont will make it possible to get on a serics of photographic plates a complete record of what happens in the sky at night.

  What "Saucers" Are Not
  The Air Force has stated in the past, and roaffirms at the present timo, that
theso unidentified aerial phenomena are not a secret weapon, missile or aircraft,
developed by the United States, None of the three military departments nor any
other agency in the government is conducting experiments, classified or otherwiso,
with flying objects which could be a basis for the reported phenomena, AS far 2s
ig Imown there is nothing in thom that is associated with material or vehiclos
that are dirocted against the United States, from another country or from other
planets.

  Your intorest in this matter is greatly appreciated.  Please call upon us if
we may be of further service.
  Sincerely yours,
  Ag ss PORTER AT Lga Pe:
  midsummer of 1947, the  ed  SOMETHING IN THE SKY  eral  of the  Air  Matériel  Command,
  tes Air Force, already concerned
  and its base was, and is, at Wright Field,
  th such problems as.the develop-  investigationthere was certainly no  Dayton, Ohio. The project’s task turned
  f guided missiles and supersonic  harm in assuming for the moment that  out to involve a mixture of old-fashioned
  e rigging up of radar networks,  the  era  of  interplanetary  travel  had  detection, scientific analysis, public rela~
  ontroversy  with the Navy  arrived  and  the  earth  had  become  tions, and the  study of a widespread
  n, found itself confronted by  an  objective  for journeys  from  el  state of mind.  In December, 1949,
  nd completely different, head-  where in the solar  system.  Or—and this  after checking, over a period of two
  flying saucer. People in  would not necessarily exclude the first
  years, three hundred and seventy-five
  the  country  re  seeing  two considerations—the Air  Force may  reports of intruders in the  sky, the Air
  strange objects that streaked across the  have been setting up a smoke  screen to  Force publicly called it quits, but Project
  sky  at tremendous speeds, and  while  protect, in the interest of national secu-
  Saucer was  not actually disbanded. Na-
  these people, who included such prac-  rity, the secret of some experimental fly-  tional security, the Air Force announced
  ticed students of the  heavens  as air-  ing objects of its own that only a trusted  at the time, was not endangered, The
  plane pilots, farmers, and the Lieutenant  few of its members knew about. What-  flying saucers were apparitions, it said,
  Governor of Idaho, were -not able to  ever the purpose, the investigation, with
  attributable  either  to a failure to
  identify the things they had seen, they  which I have been in touch from time  recognize  conventional
  objects, to
  were able to describe them vividly and  to time, has seemingly been exhaustive.  hoaxes, or to a mild form of mass hys-
  unforgettably. The newspapers called  The  Air  Force  personnel  originally  teria. The Air Force, however, did not
  the first of these mysterious obje.  assigned to it was later augmented by  let the matter rest there.
  flying saucer, taking their cue from the  astronomers,  psychologists,  physicists,  Not long after the apparent demise
  man who reported having seen it and  meteorologists,  physicians,  and _ repr:  of Project Saucer, I had  a talk in Was
  who described it as saucerlike, and the  sentatives of the F.B.I.  The investiga  ington with Brigadier General Ernest
  name stuck, although  later people  tion,
  re-  which  soon  became  popularly  Moore, then chief of Air Force In-
  ported seeir  known  P.
  roject  Saucer,  was  first  telligence,
  in the course of which he
  fps, flying dimes,  headed by.  made four categorical statements that
  gaslights, flying
  I felt sure he had made many times be-
  flying pie plates,
  r  things were
  y
  §  Cautiously  quizzical
  ditorials began to
  Appear  in the papers,
  and the President and
  members of Con.
  gress  received  a  deluge  of  letters  de-
  manding an explan
  ation.  Many of the
  letter writers had
  concluded  that the
  objects, whatever
  they might be, wer
  e
  manned by  Russians, and tha
  t  $  soon
  as  their  pilots  had  reconnoitred  suffi-
  ciently, they would
  return loaded with
  atomic bombs. Oth
  ers thought the
  earth
  was being  visited  by  space ships  from
  another  planet.  Still  others  Suspected
  thatt our own  Air  Force  was  secretly  Clipped from The NEW YORKTM
  testing  some  new  form  of  aircraft.  September 6, 1952
  Everyone  agreed,  however,  that  ic  pages  64  through  82
  was  up  to  the  Air  Force,  as  the  cus-
  todian  of our  welkin,  to  explain  the
  flying objects and,
  if necessary, to rep
  el
  them.  The  result
  was the launching
  by the Air Force, on
  January 22, 1948,
 of a special invest
  igation, an invest
  ig
 tion that, though
  it has  reached num-
 erous  conclusions,
  is  still  under  way
 and has yet to put
  the public mind at
 rest,

  It appears that, asid
  e from the hope
 of reassuring a jitt
  ery Populace, the
  Air
 Force, in embarkin
  g upon this under
  .
taking, had any or
  all of three things
in mind. It may
  well have shared
  the
civilian concern ove
  r what, if anythin
the Russians might
  have to do with the
reported phenom
  ena, and it ma
  y even
have felt that to ins
  ure  a thoroughgoing
  tenant Governor Donale e
  t.. off,” he s  “tie  Russians
  of Idaho, disclosed that
have  not  hing to do  so-called
  1a stack of  had seen a comet-shaped objece
sau cer s;  P'Il swear te
  over the western part of the s
Bibles, if you like.
  finally dipped below the horizon,
have any secret ne
  said, (Later on, the personnel of Projthat could have star  ect Saucer decided that the Lieutenant
tion. Third, nobody,  Governor had been looking at either
 spotted space ships
  Saturn or Mercury.) Four cops in Port-
 planet. Fourth, ev!  land, Oregon, saw a group of discs
 gators learned has
  vailable
  “wobbling, disappearing, and reappear-
 to the public.”  ing.”
  mt  occurred  s of other phenomena having
  24,1947,  been seen in the  skies appeared in the
  a business  papers almost daily, Two Army officers
  rm that makes  ‘ort Richardson,  Alaska, reported
  was flying his  eing a spherical object  flying through
  ehalis,  Washing-  the air at incredible speed and leav-
  ington.  The re-  ing no vapor trail; some fishermen off
  ash on one wing  Newfoundland saw a  s of aerial
  urned and, at a  flashes, silver to reddish in color; a lady
  was about twenty  in Oregon watched a group of saucers
distance
  took to be nine tail-  spell out “p-E-p-S-I,” and alerted her
miles, sa
  toward Mount  neighbors to the presence of foreign
  e their outlines quite  agents prac  secret code in our
  e snow,” Air Force  skies; an Oklahoma City man saw a
  Intelligence  quoted  him as  saying.  saucer “the bulk of six B-29s;” and
  “They flew very close to the mountain-  a prospector in  the Cascade  Moun-
  tops, directly south to southeast, down  tains of Oregon saw six  saucers  in a
  the hog’s-back of the range, flying like  group, banking in the sun—“round,
  geese, in a diagonal, chainlike line, as silent, and not flying in formation.” On
  if they were linked together... a chain the Fourth of July, there were twelve
  of saucerlike things at least five miles reports of saucers in widely separated
  long, swerving in and out of the high parts of the United States. One of
  mountain peaks, They were flat... and these saucers, sighted at Trenton, New
  so shiny that they reflected  Jersey, was traced to a
  the sun like a mirror.” Ar-  fireworks display. Dr. Paul
  nold  said he watched the  Fitts, an Ohio State Uni-
  sauct  for  three  minutes  versity psychologist  who
  and estimated their speed at  was for a time attached to
  about twelve hundred miles  Project Saucer, considered
  an hour,  this crowded condition in
  Air  Force  technicians,  the holiday skies the result
  consulted  by  _newspaper-  of mass suggestibility, the
  Fmen,  said that any object  same  jumpy  trait  that
  moving that fast would be  caused  Americans to see
  invisible to the  naked  Zeppelins overhead during
  Arnold’s estimated dist  and after the First World
  scoffed at  War. “Our
  that  saucer  incider
  Sven  if  I see  a  ways increase draina
  ten-story building  flying  after publicity,” he  has
  through the air, I  won't  since told me. “The sky,
  say  a word about it,” he de-  you  know,  has  been  a

  clared, and when he got  source of exciting visions
  b:  to Boise he wrote a series of ar-  from time immemorial, and its attrac-
  ticles about his experience for a mag-  tion is particularly strong in our jittery
  azine called Fate.  moments.”
  No sooner were the skeptical news-
  paper accounts printed than dozens of  ROM the beginning, the officers in
  people  turned  up  with  similar  re-  charge of Project Saucer recognized
  ports. Another resident of Boise spotted  a peculiar difficulty in their assignment.
  a disc over that city, “a half circle in  “If you look out the window and see
  shape, clinging to a cloud and just as  something, how can I prove or disprove
  bright and silvery-looking as a mirror  what it was if I didn’t see it and you
  caught in the rays of the sun.” Lieu-  can’t tell me much about what you
Pascoe  Su  lest, surest  \%"?” Maior — e % gs, who was
  (7a  f  we  I  then the at ee cer between
  matic  Wright Field and UN@high command
  in  Washington, said  to  me one  day
  record changerer  | ror aser Project Saucer had. pre-
  é:  EA  sumably become a thing of the past.
  “Wictrola’ AS  |i would be sifferenc if fying sau-
  cers were known to exist.  Then we
  <csS  could have collected evidence indi-
  cating the degrees of probability that
  such things were  sighted and the reason
  for their appearance at a given place.
  But it is  impossible to prove, logically
  and with finality, a double negative—
  that is, that there are no flying saucers
  and that people have not seen flying sau-
  cers.  The best we could do under the
  circumstances was to deduce, first, from
  Complete  Model}  the fact that it had not been proved, that

  tone syste  (suggested list price)  | from the fact that reasonable theorie
  © Plays up
  to 14 records
  at one loading}  could be advanced  to explain away all
  © The only record and changer designed}  the reports of seeing them, that probably
  for each other  nobody had seen them at all.  The

  Includes $6 worth of RCA Victor al- | the less plausible they were, the more
  bums at’no extra charge.  reason there was for suspecting people
  Other “Victrola” 45 record changers  {had seen saucers.”  The Major shook
  as low as $16.75.  his head, and continued, “It’s a difficult
  concept to grasp, but so was the job we
  Only  REAVICTOR  |
  makes the’ Vietwola’ @ 22 |  1 asked Major Boggs whether there
  Tmls. ® Division of Radio Corporation of America  | WS Any Way to account for the epidemic
  LOVELY TO LIGHT BY...  of  reports  of  strange  celestial  objects.
  “OF  course there is,” he replied.  “If
  you look up at the sky long enough, you
  A candelabrum of §| can almost always make out something
  juni votinee  | there that appears strange. And more
  flower and leat  — | people are  looking  up now than  ever
  design set off by  +  §  :
  dstiete weet.  | before.  Kids don’t count freight cars
  Teuiney ben  | 22¥ more; they count  airplanes,  People
  fer. dramatic  who  were  trained  in  air observation
  during  the  war  have  gone  right  on
  Hsignt 0%",  | observing.  Also, the public hasn’t for=
  ress  gotten that  the  atomic bomb was kept
  seo
  woe seae,| Secret from it for three years.  This
  Open Saturday 0-5  time, people want to know what's cook-
  a  ing,  so  theylook up.” Major Bog
  gs
  HOUSE OF ITALIAN HANDICRAFTS sighed.  “Time was when people used
  217 East 40th St. New York 17, PL 8.6510]  ty  make
  a  wish  if  they  saw  a shoot-

  b Oe ght seas  4
  evi  ’
  ing star. Now they telephone the Air

  Major Boggs  and  I pondered this
  unromantic age in silence for a mament.
  Then he returned briskly to the prob-
  lems that had confronted the investi-
  gators. “The one tangible thing we had
  to work  on was the fact that the sky is
  full of things,” he said.  “I can’t even
  come close to estimating the number of
  commercial and military aircraft up
  there at any given moment. Then, there
  are more than five hundred outfits of
  t
  Ay leoding toriinure Gnd deporimens stores,  | one kind or another that release balloons
  page  67,  68
  ‘Send 3-cent stomp to Dept. N for booklet. | from time to time.
  These range from
  UNION-NATIONAL, INC. * JAMESTOWN, N.Y. | simple
  weather balloons, ne” “cer than
  #  had  behaved  like a‘ nor: val’  aircraft
  in the  way  it disapp
  n the line
  of sight.

  Here, the experts
  professed to hope,
  was something
  Project Saucer
  could get
  its teeth  into.  The  whole  Ayin,  saucer
  mystery  might  be  explained.
  ‘The  first
  step  was  to  determine
  whether  the  ob-
  ject was an aircra
  ft that had been
  par-
  tally  obscured  by  a  cloud  or  whose
  appearance
  had  been distorted
  by  a rain
  storm.  Two hundred
  and twenty-fiv
  e
  civilian  and  military  flight  schedules
  were  analyzed,  and  it  was  found  that
  one  other  plane,  an  Air  Force  C-47,
  had  been  near  the  E stern airliner at
  the  time  the  mysterious object
  was
  sighted.  Conjecture  about  the  @-47
  began  to  appear  irrelevant,  however,
  when the  Macon ground cre
  ws agreed
  with Chiles and Wh
  itted that the  thir
  they  had  seen  was going  much  faster
  than  two hundred mil
  es an hour, and
  So,-unless  it  dawdled  around  some-
  Where,  wouldn’t have
  taken  anything
  like
  an hour to  get  from  Macon  to
  Montgomery,
  Astronomers  went  to  work  on  the
  Problem.  Dr.  Hynek  considered  the
  Possibility  that a brilliant,
  slow-moving
  meteor mig
  ht  be  the  explanation.
  Vari
  ous  bits  of  the  apparition’s  description
  encouraged
  this  “notion—“ora
  nge-red
  flame,” “cigar-sha
  ped,” “a tremend
  ous
  burst  of  flame.”
  Unfortunately, the
  flight schedules of
  meteors are not av
  ail
  able, and Dr. Hy
  nek had no me
  ans of
  testing  his  hypothesis.
  “Tt  will  have  to
  be  left  to  the  psychologists  to tell  us
  whether  the  immediate  trail of a brigh
  t
  meteor  could produ
  ce the  subjective im
  -
  Pression
  of  a  ship  with  lighted  win-
  dows,”  he  wrote  in  a  report  on  his
  findings.  The  psychologists expres
  sed
  the opinion tha
  t
  a meteor could
  indeed
  be mistaken for
  a space ship. Dr
  . Fitts,
  the Ohio State
  psychologist, obs  An utterly new
  erved  carpet
  that both Chiles
  and Whitted  creating an un
  were  usual textui
  human and the
  refore  as likely to be  Extremely smart
  victims
  ..  . for one.
  of  mass  suggestibi
  lity  as  any-  Chosen by leadin
  one  else.  Dr.  Fitts  g de
  told  me  during  ;  in carpet fashio
  talk  I  had  with him that  n and luxur
  psychologists
  And, of course, Ny
  are  used  to the  fact  that  even
  e-Wait
  people
  high  mental calibre
  of  advantages of be
  often  ing mothpro
  make  mis-
  takes  about  what
  for lasting fit to
  they  see.  “Also,  withstand
  would like  I
  to make  will outwear
  the point tha
  t  pilots
  conventi
 are  trained  to  Instruments
  ,”  he  Write Nye-Wai
 “They  grow
  said,
  fort the,
  very  dependent on tho
  se
  ‘struments,
  and  I  don’t know
  whether

  Nye-
  Te  necessarily
  superior
  observers
  ut  them.  I  do know  that  during
t¢  war, when
  I  was  in  the
  295 Fifth
  Air  Force,
Pilots frequen  New Yor
  tly  gave  some  pretty  odd
reports  Chicago, Los
  of  what  Angeles,  San Francisco
  they'd
  seen  while  ,
  flying their  missions.”
  Chiles and  * Illustrated
  Whitted  is  NYE. WAIT’S
readily  agreed  COR
  that  their report  visible depth,
  might  translucent col
  or and x
  Se
  gi

  ing a rout
  in e Patrol fo
  LIN  kota Natio  r th2\ oy.
  nal Guard
  , and
  SEOROOM  the tower  ju.  ked
  FuRNiTuRE  at the
  ‘0 Munic
  Port for  ipal Ajr-
  cleara  nce to la
  nd  when he
  what seem  aw
  ed  to be anot
  lighta thou  her Plane’
  s tail-
  sand yards
  the tower  aw  He querie
  , and  the men th  d
  that the on  ere report
  ly other  ed
  aircraft over
  was a
  Piper
  th  e field
  Cub,  G,  an coul
  Cub plainl  d  see the
  y  outlined be
  ous, he
  low him  . Curi-
  flew tow
  ard  the light
  about six  .  “Tr was
  to eight
  inches in
  clear white  diameter
  , and com  ,
  pletely ro
  lar
  of
  und, with
  fuzz  at  the  edges,
  later told  ”  G orman
  iny  tigators, ad
  ding that
  Saw  “no  outline  he
  of  anything
  the edges.  ”  around
  “Tr was bl
  inking on
  As Tappro  and off,
  ached, how
  ev  er, the lig
  denly  became  ht sud-
  ly  and pulled
  into
  ++ I  dived  after jt
  d pressure
  ixty inches  up
  , but T co
  with the  uldn ’t catch up
  thin  g.  It starte
  tude and  d  ining alti-
  again mad
  e a left ba
  I into  nk. T put
  a sharp tu
  rn and tr
  off in its
  ied
  turn. B
  Full colo  ‘re at ab  y then,
  r  out  seven
  Suddenly  feet,
  thousand
  jt made a
  and we
  sharp right
  and arran
  an
  headed  turn
  ge,  straight
  fein to  Just when  at each
  Kling Fa  other,
  Mayville, N  cto
  Y.
  ric  we y  € about to
  Suess I
  got s
  collide,
  Went in
  MAHOG  and the  to a dive
  ANY  light pass
  ed ov er my
  [APLE  about fiv  canopy
  e hundre  at
  d feet.
  aleft circle  Th  en it mad
  e
  d feet aboy
  is
  again.” Gor
  man fol.
  feet, w here
  ,
  his ship
  8 power st
  all and the
  red  to  the  northwes
  Gorman no  t,
  ticed no  sounds or
  trail  odors.  exhaust-
  He  had
  ed his  gunn
  up to fo  plane
  ur hund
  red mile
  s an ho
  mae  ur w ith
  tiNg On  -
  the light
  . Te was
  maintain  abl, to
  an  extremel
  y  steep an
  ascent,
  far  gle  of
  greater
  than
  Force fight  that  of h
  er, “W  hen I atte
  Air

  turn  with  mpted  to
  [the  light],

  soft and
  I blacke
  tempora  d  out
  rily, due
  warm  said. “Tam
  to excess
  in fairly
  iy.

  tion and I  ;
  as eider  do not belie
  ve there
  down  if any, pilo
  ts who co
  uld withst
  are many,
  Crush @ Ma
  ri  turn and  and the
  speed eff
  F  ected by
  remain  that light
  consciou  an  d
  s,”
  the folds.
  Warmth  Toject  Saucer
  without we  uspected th
  BeeP_  awaits
  you
  ight! Re  stful  man  was tiltin  at Gor-
  under  g with
 Blanket,  e  Maripos  a weath
  a
  For one th  er ballo
* See the
  charm of  ing, it learne  on,
  Marip  d that the
 dealer's  osa Colo
  rs ot yo
  ur  Weather
  station
  Fargo
  had  released
  balloon on  a  lighted
  ly  ten minut
  es before
  ALL  man’s  patrol  Gor-
  WOo  stopped
  L  being
  RIPOSA  The object  routine.
  ’s steady, Pr
  climb sugg  actically ve
  rtical
  B LAN  ested  the behavi
  KET  loon.  or of a ba
  l.
  MADE  A technician
  SHULER &  8  who once w
  BENNINGH  Project Sauc  d on  orke
  OFEN  er told me
  HAM
  1 TO
  IL  chasing a  recently that
  N  OHIO"  weather balloon w
  Plane is  ith an air-
  comparabl
  e t, divi
  bottom of  ng  to the
  a Pool  after a ho
  llo  w rubber
nany saucers  enT’m
holding one in my ov
The  ‘ancher  forwar
  80 find t  he said.

Wright Field, where
a remnant of one of the incendiary
loons the hopeful  |
across the Pacific dur  @ the war in an
effort to start forest f
  Even pictures taken of supposed saucers failed toimpr  ts. T
  expers
  the es
was the case of a man in Phoenix,
  Arizona, who spotted a flat gray
ject spiralling up and down in the sky
at  a speed that he estimated at between
  four and five hundred miles an hour
  He snapped two pictures of it with h
  Brownie. Prints were rushed to Project
  Saucer, and Dr. Irving Langmuir, the
  physicist and a Nobel Prize winner, was
  asked to study them. The distinguished
  scientist learned that a thunderstorm
  had occurred just before the picture-|
  taking, and concluded that he was look-
  ing at a couple of rather poor shots
  of a piece of paper being buffeted by
  the wind.

  S time went on and the skie  appar-

  ently, continued to teem with fly-
  ing saucers, the generals in the Penta-
  gon, warming to their task, decided to
  investigation.  PUERTO RICAN RUM  GOLD OR WHITE LABEL-
  enlarge the scope of the
  Commanders of all Air Force installa-
  tions in the  country were ordered to
  assign Intelligence officers to look into  MAKE HARD
  sightings reported in their  areas.  The

  officers were instructed to solicit the as-
  MATTRESSES

  sistance of municipal police officials, who  This cozy cotton “pillow” for
  might be familiar with the personalities  your body coaxes sweet sleep
  from hard mattresses and  in
  of the saucer observers. The F.B.I. was  ferior  beds  Special  boon  to.
  also called upon for assistance, and as-
  \
  invalids and aged. Easy to carry

  nts to help interview people  out and sun, $17.95 in blue-&
  white ACA, $19.95 in rose, blue
  who reported that they had seen discs.  or green damask, full or twin
  sizes, shipping charges prepaid

  Jair, drawn up by Air Force  Intel
  } gence, which called for such informa-
  4--<ol
  tion  as th  saucer’s size,  speed,
  peed,
  color  ,

  was
  ind maneuvers. The information
  usually tre nsmitted to Wright F
  but some stories were  so obviously
  false  and some  “evide
  1
  nce”
  ly trifling that the  I  B.I. men d
  even  bother  to  fill  out  th  questi
  naire.  In  attle,  for  instance,
  larmed woman called the  police t«
  form them  that a flar
  ed on her  roof.

  found  that  a

  he decided.
  Illinois,  reported  th  er  leading  s
  storeor  write

  crash-landed  in or  EXETER Hosiery Mills «
  s

  burned  patch
  on the  retina and moving as the eye
  moves.  +
  Other elements of  th®tug@problem
  were studied by such men as Dr. George
  Valley, a nuclear physicist at the Massa-
  chusetts Institute of Technology; staff
  members of the research firm of Rand
  Corporation; an assortment of physicists
  and  aerodynamicists who specialize  in
  the study  of the stratosphere and  the
  space beyond jit; and the electronics ex-
  perts attached  to the  Cambridge  Field
  Station. These men were all sear hing
  for physical rather than psychological
  explanations, and  some  fairly  strange
  theories occurred to them—the possibil-
  ity  that  extraterrestrial  animals  were
  flying into our atmosphere, for example.
  (No data turned up to support that ar-
  resting idea.)  The theory that the sau-
  cers were hostile  aircraft  carefu
  studied and  rejected.  “The perform-
  ances of these  saucers not only  surpass
  the development of present science but
  the development of present fiction-sci-
  ence writers,” one scientist noted.  The
  specialists also considered and rejected
  the concept of discs capable of riding the
  air on beams or rays of some kind. They
  even speculated  on  whether  the  anti-
  gravity shield that H. G. Wells thought
  up for his novel “The First  Men in the
  Moon” would work;  it wouldn’t, they
 decided. The supposition that interplan-
 etary craft were whizzing in at us was
 also  discredited, despite  its popularity
 with laymen. Space ships, the scientists
 thought, would have to be so  large and
 unwieldy that they couldn’t possibly zig-
 zag as frivolously as the reported saucers
 did, Besides, a space ship, regardless of its
 size, could not, in the opinion of these
 men, carry sufficient fuel to remain for
 any length of time in the earth’s dense
 atmosphere.  The scientists noted, too,
 that the supposed spacemen showed a re-
 markable  lack of interest in the rest of
 the world, being, it would seem, almost
 unanimous in their desire to see America
 first.  “The small area covered by the
 disc barrage points strongly to the belief
 that the flying objects are of earthly
origin, be they physical or psychological,” one of the scientists reported.
  From the  report turned in by the
astronomers,  I learned that they, in addition to seining out comets, meteors,
bolides,  and  achondrites  from  the
stream of objects people were seeing in
the skies, had also thoughtfully  considered our planetary neighbors.  The
old question of the possibility of life on
  FOR STORE NEAR
Mars took on a new urgency, and a new  WRITE RAYMAKERS BY AVON. £

corollary: If there are living creatures  47 WEST 34TH ST., NEW YC

on  Mars,  would  they be capable  of
  OR  SEND  CHECK  OR  MONEY  ORDER  DIRECTLY  +

building space ships?  The astronomers
  give  me  may  be

  ames  never  will
  Captain  Ruppelt  said,  investigat

  has shown that the  people he has  inter-
  viewed  had  been  deceived  by  things
  that  have  been  deceiving  others  a
  ulong—balloons, planes, meteors, and
  so on—but a nettling residue of
  around
  twenty  per cent of the cases have
  wound
  ip in that exasperating old pigeonhole
  abelled “Unidentified.” Nothing
  ,  for
  example,  could  be  found  to  account  HAVE YOU GRASPED
  for  the  “something  silvery  directly
  overhead” reported by a  mystified Civil  THE Southwick wear
  Aeronautics Administration inspector at
  Terre Haute. A commercial pilot
  flying near Battle Creek,
  who,  Here is tailoring so completely flexil
  Michigan,
  natural that  the comfort
  spotted  “an  oval-shaped  contrast  is  re:
  silver object”
  ahead of his ship, posed a simila  markable, Once you experience the blissf
  rly  un-
  solved problem, as did a highly respec  and casual distinction of SUPE
  ted  RFLEX co
  naval officer, stationed at the dirigible  tion, you'll never go back
  to over-stuffed
  base at Lakehurst, New Jersey, who re-  styled clothes.  Suits from $70.  Sports
  ported  that  he  had  stared  through  from $55
  his
  binoculars at a brilliant im: age
  making
  turns that  were  far  too tight  for  any
  PAULSTUART,
  known  aircraft.  ARTHUR  L

  Twenty-five per cent of the obsery-  WARNER & COMPANY JOHN WANAMAS
  ers interrogated by  Philade
  the  Aerial Phenom-
  ROBERT  K
  ena Officer in the last two and
  a half
  years have been military pilots.
  Eight
  per cent have been commercial pilots,
  GRIECO  BROS.,  Inc.,  200  Fift
  some with as much as twent
  y years’ ex-
  perience in the air, and at one
  stage in
  tWcirrene phase  of the  investigation,
  even  a  few  physicists
  Alamos,  at  Los
  New Mexico, men who make
  a fetish
  of objectivity, were interviewe
  d after
  they  reported  having  seen  puzzling
  lights  hovering  above  their  atomic-
  energy  laboratories.  “If  you  too
  any  one  of  these  incidents  by  itself,
  it  might  not  mean  much,”  Captain
  Ruppelt  said.  “But  in  view  of  the
 number and calibre  of the  informants,
 you  couldn’t  help  taking  their  claims
 seriously.”

  In  February,  1951,  Dr.  Urn
 Liddel,  a nuclear  physicist  attached  to
 the Office of Naval Research,
  at  Wash-
 ington, D.C., declared ‘ine at last,
 thanks to the  lifting of certain  security
 restrictions
  he, could prov
  HIGHLIGHTS IN  14K GOLD
  ide the solution
 to  the  mystery  of  the  Present her with a smart
  flying  s:  ace:
 They  were  “skyhooks,” he  said—bal-  the school year right and
  acc!
 loons a hundred feet in
  diameter, which  Ring $40.  17) Movado
the  Navy  had secretly  been sending  up
for
  (Available in stainl
  the  past  four  years  in  to
  Poodle charm $53.50
study  cosmic  rays.  Dr, Liddel’s asser-
  Cut-out initials (Allow one
tion  was
  y  disputed by  wed
  immec
  Dr.
 Anthony  Shown Actual Size *
  O. M  chi, who, as former  Mail and Phone Orders FilledFed
head  of the

  BLACK, STAR
  Air  Force’s Atmospheric
Composition Bureau, had
  assisted in the
diagnosis
  of Project Saucer reports.  Dr.
Mirarchi said he  thought the  FIFTH AVENUE AT
  48TH STR
  saucers
might  be  missiles  from  some  fore  n  EAST ORANGE
  MANHASS
  fourtees minutes, Ple
  rmargyy
  bright lights that rese
  mble  tat  S
  (  OSS Eis  3S
  shooting stars, but thre
  e of them were
  moving horizontally, unlike any shoot-
  ‘lbys
  vi

  ing star he had ever seen
  Fifth Ave: at 55th, N.Y.22  , Another com-
  | cin} pilot who was reac
  hed in flight
  nearby said that he saw
  a light off his
  left wing; Barnes found
  a corresponding
  pip on the radarscope.
  Other pilots in the
  Vicinity  reported,  however, that  they
  could  see  nothing  unusual.  Toward
  daybreak, ten peculiar pips
  were  counted
  simultaneously  on  Barnes’  screen,
  “There is no other con
  clusion  I can
  reach  but  that  for  six  hours  on  the
  morning of the twentie
  th of July  there
  were at least  ten unidentifiable
  objects
  moving  above  Washington,”  Barnes
  wrote.  “They  were not ordinar
  y air-
  craft... Nor in my
  opinion could  ny
  naturalphenomena
  The Mark Cross‘  account for these
  Spots on our  radar. Neither shooting
  OXFORD
  SHIRT
  stars,  electrical
  disturbanc
  es,  nor  clouds

  More popular than ever  could, either.  Exactly what they
  — even for  are, T
  city wear  — the button-down  don’t know.
  collar  Now you know as muc
  shirt in finest oxford,
  woven with
  h
  about them as I do,
  fully combed  yarn. Button cuff  And your guess
  14%4-17% collar, 32-35  as good as mine,”
  sleeve, Whi ¢
  or blu  A  week
  55,50  later, at 9:08 p.m
  i  . on
  With it—an importe  July 26th, the Air
  d silk knit tie  Route Trafic Con-
  hand-framed for Mark Cros  trol Center’s r:
  s, Blac
  navy, greysbrown,g
  reen,wine.$8,80
  N  Cer  a urscope agai
  gain n show
  shox ed
  | unidentifiab
  le  objects  over
  Mail
  and  phone
  W ashing
  orders
  fled,
  Su  74009
  |  ton.
  So  did  the  sereen
  at  the  Andre

  Air Force
  s

  Base, just outside  the capi-
  tal.  Two jet  interceptors, capable  of
  doing  six  “hundred  miles  an  hour,
  were dispatched from
  a  base near New
  Castle, Delaware, to
  investigate, When
  ;
  the  interceptors  appeared

  th
  on  the  radar.
  Scopes,
  objects. One of the pilots sighted
  they  were  guided  toward  the
  a
  /

  3.
  .

  Ee  =  four
  if  lights  approximately  ten  miles
  4
  BE  ae  =n
  ~~  |

  it, but they vanished while he was:
  in
  i
  front of  his  plane
  !
  and  slightly  abov

  SSK.  trying to overtake them . ‘Twenty
  minutes later, he
 T Ce) Y  B A G Pp I Pp E | ligh  saw  “a st  ly  white
  t,” but within a minute
  it, too,
  disappeared.  “We
  Easy to Play—only $4.98  have  no  evidence
  they were flying saucers,” an
 Complete  with  blowpipe,  drones,  chaunter, bright
  Air Force
  representative  said  later,  “Conversely,

 strument,  but  sounds mellow
  and
  er sweeter. Anyo
  ne  flying  saucers.
can learn  to play popular tunes  We  don’t  know
  ina matter of min.  what
  they  were,”
  ust  by reading
Styrene and Vinylitg ween sanitary and stron
  numbers,  Made of washable

  i fun-maker  for  children
  A  ult of these two incid
  Pee
  ents,
  and grown ups  particularly the
  one involving the
  inter-

for only $4.98 (includes
  how-to-play song folde
  r) to:  height.  The  Air  Force  was bombarded
  TIMESAVER
  S  DEPT.,  Dept.  NY-9
  with  hundreds
  of letters,
2 West 45th St.  telephone
  calls,
  New York 19,
  and  telegrams  demanding  information
  and offering advice. One
  MRS.  KARO'S  of the smaller
  airlines supplied its crews with
  HAND  LAUND RY  cameras
  and ordered them to
  160 EAST 62nd STREET  photograph any
  Saucers they encountered. A civi
  TEmpleton 8-6516
  lian
  wrote  to the  Air  Force  that  page  79,  80
  Specialists in silks, laces,  he  would

  iapesaied das eae hss
  table linens, shirts;  | let it in on “the secr
  coloneley, A Los Angeles Pastor wrote
  at moderate rate
  s.  et” in return for a
  stor.

  to Einstein, beseeching
  him to clear up
  ——

tronomers, whom } * “alled “our best

from ee raph the sky
advisers... in ¢]  28s of visito!

continuously, but they had reported no
saucers.  The  General  was  reminded
that many of the people who had told of
seeing the most spectacular things were
considered the most reliable. He replied
that he had no intention of discrediting
them, but the fact remained that none
of them had offered data of the kind a
scientist would find useful. An Air
Force officer whom General Samford  personally  knew  to  be a competent witness had told him of seeing
a saucer inthe Middle East.  This
man, too, had been unable to obtain accurate measurements. ““We have many
reports from credible observers of incredible things,” the General remarked.
  Like General Moore, his predecessor
in Project Saucer days, General Samford denied that the  Air Force was attempting to cover up  secret experiments.
When he was asked if the saucers might
be the guided missiles of a foreign country, he replied that he didn’t see how,  on
the basis of their weird performances,
they could be unless “someone” had
achieved a means of developing unlimited power—“power of such fantastic
higher limits that it is a theoretical un-
  it’s not anything that we can
understand”—and utilizing it under
conditions in which no mass is involved.
As for the latter, the General told the
press, drawing a laugh, “You know,
what ‘no mass’  means is that there’s
nothing there.”

  HILE General Samford’s inter-
  view probably reassured the public as evidence that the Air Force was
still on the job, it did nothing to lessen
the nation’s saucer-consciousness. The
reporters had hardly thanked the General for his comments when, on August Ist, a Coast Guard photographer
produced a picture showing four bizarre
lights burning brilliantly in a daylight
sky. He said he had taken it over Salem,
Massachusetts.  The next day, a Harvard astrophysicist called the photograph
worthless because it  was  accompanied by
no scientific data, such as temperature
distribution  and  altitude.  On  August
6th, an Army physicist
  at Fort Belvoir,
Virginia, created the equivalent of flying
saucers  in his laboratory by introducing
molecules of ionized air into a partial
vacuum in a bell jar, and three days
later an internationally known autho
ty on atmospheric conditions  said of the
physicist’s experiment, “I know of no
  page  81,  82
conditions of  the  earth’s atmosphere,
high  or  low, which  would  duplicate!
  Invoice of Contents from ® »
  YoDERAL BUREAU OF  INVESTIGATION -
  WASHINGTON, D.  C.

  Date October 6,.1952  Case References  _ INVESTIGATION OF POSSIBLE  /
  Directorate of Special Invest.  UNIDENTIFIED FLYING OBJECT
  Consigned tdthe Inspector General
  Department of the Air Force, The Pentagon
  Washington,  D.  C.
  Att: Mr. Gilbert R. Levy
  List of Contents  *

  PC-33951DE
  .  Harbo,  7625

  through 6  . Conrad, 7142

  4U97363  . Downing, 6228 IB -
  through K3  ef  .  Bowles,  7601
  :  MAILED  4  i  cv  .  Parsons,  7121

  A

  REGISTE ‘ED: MAIL}... COMMPFEILD I  es
  }  j

  ease  Usk»  wh  )
SPECIAL INSTRUCTIONS:  ‘Mail Room,  place date of  shipment and registry number; Shipping Room,  ‘show
date  of  shipment and  initial  this  invoice;  then  return  it  to  person  whose  name  is  checked  in  column at
right.  After  this  checked name has been  initialled,  invoice  should be placed  in administrative  file.
  Ccteober 28,  1952

  Director of Special Investigations
  The Inspector General
  Department of the Atr Force
  The Pentagon
  Washington 25,  De  Ce

  From:  John Edgar Hoover, Director
  eee
RECORDED  2
  - 143  der
  yenere} Bicates f fe nuestigation
  tgatt

  Subject:  FLYING SAUCERS

  There are attached for  your  infornation
  @ copy of a self-explanatory letter dated  UYetober 21,
  1952, and the enclosures therete,  received by  this
  Bureau from Mr. Harvel ¥. Reecee

  Hr. Reece has been advised that his letter
  has been  referred to your Department.  Ho further action
  ts being  taken in this matter by this Bureau.

  4 tte dgale at
  \

  EHM: cem:mes
  But}

qgits  jy 40 838 8 |
 wana  ve
  phe :
  COCKTAIL LOUNGE

  DINING  ROOM
  CAFETERIA STYU

iol
  Ie

  Wasnincton -D-C
  18TH AND H.ST.N.W
  PHONE  NA  9216

  2/-  70-5  ®
  UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

  is  o  rc  DATE:  Oct  2 sg
  obe Pr 85s
  ROM  :  XAK  A
:j  of P. KEAY / VIO

 \) SUMECT: "PLYING SAUCERS  4  a

  Reference  made to anr 6,article
  is Septembe  which appeared in . veg
  hs
  "TTMmeXvew Yorker"  dated  1952, which ts attached
  This axticle which was written by DanieI\{ang contained  parc
  inaccurate information regarding FBI investigations, indi-  —
  cating that the FBI conducts certain inquirtes regarding  aes
  flying saucers at the request of the Air Force. It is
  pointed out here that, although the Bureau did at one time
  conduct some investigations regarding flying saucers, a
  present agreement has been set up with the Air Force whereby
  the Air Force conducts all investigations pertaining to flying
  saucers and the Bureau, upon receiving complaints of this nature,
  merely turns the complaints over to the Office of Special
  Investigations (OSI), which in turn transmits the information
  to Air Intelligence.  Air Intelligence has set up the Air
  Technical Intelligen ce  Center at Wright-Patterson Air Force
  Base, Dayton, Ohio, for the purpose of coordinating and handling
  of research pertaining to flying saucers.

  Inquiry was conducted in order to determine, if
  possible, the source for the information appearing in the
  attached article regarding FBI investigations. Lieutenant
  Colonel L. L. Free in charge of the Espionage Branchs
  Counter-Intelligence Division, Office of Special Investigations,
  advised that no one in OSI has been contacted by Lang, and he
  suggested direct contact by the Bureau Representative with
  Air Intelligence to determine if Lang had been in touch with
  anyone in that organization in order to gather information for
  his  article,

  Colonel C. M. Young, Executive Officer to Major
  General John A. Samford, Director of Air Intelligence, advised
  _that Lang has not contacted General Samford's office.
  Colonel Young also telephonically contacted Captain Ruppelt
  of the Air Technical Intelligence Center, Wright-Patterson
  Air Force Base, Dayton, Ohio, on September 30, 1952.  Captain  j
  (9
  Ruppelt advised Colonel Young that they have never indicated cake yw
  in any way to Mr. Lang that the FBI has an interest in flying
  saucers,  Captain Ruppelt stated that the FBI to his knowledge sl
  has never been called upon to furnish reports on flying saucers.

  or newspaper article sometime, \
  Ruppelt is under the impression that Mr. Lang made the story up \
  or picked it up from some magazine
  back. Both Colonel Young  and Captain Ruppelt are thoroughly »/\w
  familiar with Bureau policy pertaining to flying saucers.  fas

  Attachments (2)  RECORDED - 116  at”
  @oeoRe 9 1957  gb _
  INDEXED - Uy
  409  NOSIVI-NOIi:
  dd  a
  ‘1d30°s  30 BOSNt

  19
ANOW138 0 693u

  752 AM 3u10 10 Qer
  OF DEPT.  U.S.
Memorandum for  Mr.  A.  H.  Belmont,  10/8/52

Colonel Young suggested that further conta
  ct be made with
Ur. Albert Chop of the Office of Public Inform
  ation, Office  of
the Secretary of Defense, who represents
  the Air Force in
public  relations  contacts  pertaining  to  flying  saucer  matters.

  Ur.  Chop  was  contacted  and  advised  that  he  was familiar
with the attached  "New Yorker" magazine article.  He  advised
that Lang had gathered most of the mater
  ial about two years ago
when considerable publicity regarding flying
  saucers had appeared
in  newspapers.  He  does  not  know where Lang gathered  the material
at  that  time  but  assumes  that  he  gathered  it from  various  sources,
such  as  other  newspaper  articles.  When  the
  recent publicity
regarding flying  saucers  appeared  in  newspapers, Lang renewed
his interest in flying saucers and attempted
  to bring his
article up to date.  He contacted Ur. Chop for further current
information. Mr. Chop advised that he gave Lang
  some routine
items  of  interest  regarding flying  saucer  complaints  and
investigations  by  the
  Air Force, but that he instructed Ur. Lang
not to contact the Air Technical Intelligence Center
  for further
 information from that source.  Mr. Chop also advised that at
no time was the FBI mentioned and that he has no
  idea where
Lang obtained the information appearing in his article
  concerning
FBI investigations.  Mr. Chop advised that he is thor oughly
familiar with Bureau policy pertaining to flying saucer
  investigations,and that he at no time has indicated to any
  writer or
newspaper  representative  that  the  FBI  conducts  investigations
pertaining  to flying  saucers.  Mr.  Chop  advised  that,  if  the
Bureau desires, he would be glad to contact Lang to
  discreetly
determine where Lang obtained his information indicat
  ing that the
FBI conducts investigations pertaining to flying saucers
  .  He
stated  that  he  could  make  this  contact without  indicating  in
any  way  the  Bureau  has  contacted  him.  He  was  advised  that  his
offer  of  cooperation  was  appreciated,  but  that  it  was  not
desired  that  he  make  such  an  inquiry  at  the  present  time.

  There  is  attached  a  current mimeographed form  containing
current  information  regarding  the  whole flying  saucer  matter
which  was  turned  over  by  Chop.  This  is  the  information  which
Memorandum for Mr. A.  H.  Belmont,  10/8/52

ts  ordinarily given  to  newspaper  reporters  or  writers  who
make  inquiry  in  the  Office  of Public  Information.

ACTION:

  None.  For  your  information.
Office Memorandum * UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT
  P

  Ayo’
TO  8:  MR. As He BELUONTON?TM  DATE: October 27, 1952
FROM  :  Ve Pe. KEAY  yo  Y
  /

SUBJECT:  ~ FLYING  SAUCERS

  SYNOPSIS:

  Air Intelligence advised  of another  creditable  and
  unexplainable sighting of flying saucers.
  still feels flying saucers are optical  illu
  pherical phenomena but some  Military officials are seniously
  considering  possibility  of interplanetary ships.

  BACKGROUND:

  You  will  recall  that  Air  Intelligence  has  previously
  kept  the  Bureau  advised  regarding  developments  pertaining  to  Air
  Intelligence  research  on  the flying  saucer  problem.  Air  Intelligence
  has previously  advised  that all research pertaining to this  problem
  is handled  e  Air Technical. In  gence Center located  at
  Wright-Patterson Airforce Base, Dayton,  Ohio; that approrimately
  90 per  cent  of  the  reported  sightings  of flying  saucers  can  be
  discounted  as  products  of the  imagination  and  as  explainable  objects
  such  as  weather  balloons,  etc.,  but  that  a  small  percentage  of
  extremely  creditable  sightings  have  been  unexplainable.

  DETAILS:

  Colonel  C.  M.  Youn  Executive  Officer to Major  General
  John As
  Samfords..Director of intelligence, Air Force, advised on
  Octaheréuw3,  1952,  that  another  recent  extremely creditable  sighting
  had been reported to Air Intelligence.  A, Navy photographer, while
  traveling across thé  United States  in his  own car, saw G number of
  objects  in  the  sky which  appeared  to  be  flying  saucers.  He  took
  approrimately  thirty-five feet  of motion-picture film.of  these
  objects.  He voluntarily submitted the film to Air Intelligence who
  had it studied by the Air Technical Intelligence Center.  kzperts
  at the Air Technical Intelligence Center have advised that, after
  careful study, there were as many as twelve to sizteen flying objects
  recor
  on this.
  ded.  film;  that  the  possibility  of weati  loons,  f,
  yr _othe  zplainable objects has been complet  led-out; d
  t they<  a  comp  in  this  most  recent  aed
  creditable  sig)  The  Air  Technical  Intelligence  Center  experts
  pointed out that  they could  not  be  optical  illusions  inasmuch  as
  optical  illusions  could  not  be  recorded  on film.

  ol?  cy  ay, OCT 30 1982"
  fe Wi 2s @ oelltSdy GM.
  d
  {
  nosivi  S i NO
  NO{4

  41 ig

NOS  "  At
 Memo  to  Mr. A.  He  Belmont  RE:  FLYING  SAUCERS
 from  Ve.  Pe.  Keay

  Colonel Young.advised that Air Intelligence still feels
 that the so-called flying saucers are either optical illusions or
 atmospherical phenomena.  He pointed out, ho
| iaderetanetar  are seriously considering the possibility of
 inte rplanetary sh tps.

 ACTION:

  None.  This  is for  your  information.
  October 28,  1952

 Mr. Narvel-#/ Reece, (.T.S. Ne
 1578 Van Fandt Road
 Cincinnati 31, Ohio

 Dear Mr. Reece:  a

  I want to thank you for your letter and  the
 enclosures which you forwarded to this Bureau.

  I have  taken  the liberty  of forwarding a
 copy of your letter and the enclosures thereto to
 the Department of the Air Force, tnasmuch as the
 natter referred to in your letter te within the
 jurisdiction of that Department.

  Stacerely  yours,
  AN

  John Edgar Hodber,;,
  lad  FaY
  Director  wf  0C,\80 1952
  137

 EHM: cém:mes
  d
  yy

 Note:  The Records Section has been unable to locate a cross
 reference on the name Narvel WoodroweRtéce (64-32001-1-13  5,
encl. page 7). In view of the information  contain ed  in  64-320 01-1,
it is not believed the reference will be pertin ent  in  this  instan ce.
This action is being taken to expedite the Burea u's  reply  to the
correspondent.  File mentioned above concerns name check requests.
  Es

  >
OG; HAS |p Gz 49g
jth
aie iidotigaa
  q  ij  §>
  ;

 WOO  tee  gA13

  LNow
  NUMEROUS REFERAICE  4-22c

  sat  - SEARGH SIP  :
  és Supervisor  yisesl  “<< Room J 79 2”
  4  a  i)
Subj:  7/7 Af  Kcce
i— Exact Spelling  Searchers
  ‘All References  Initial_7  7?
  Subversive Ref.  Date
  Mail File
  Restricted to Locality of

FILE NUMBER

  Initialed
  FEBR2 41953  2,  Ake

6OFrER 9 1953
  18
 JLSAP 30 idaaS
  A
  lad
  GaAI903y

EG. WY 60 1]  92 muy
  3aN0C UW
  ALL  INFORMATIO1M CONTAINED

  DAIL  SUM  Sb-Leyale fal
  Comp  FAN, S36

Oo FEB 161953
  , (b) (3) (A)

  », (b) (3) (B)
(b) (3) (B)
  326
  y

KggoRDED-84
  Date:  February 11,  1953

  To:  Director  of Special  Investigations
  The Inspector General
  Department of the Air Force
  The Pentagon
  Washington 25,  De  Ce

  From:  John Edgar Hoover, Dtrector
  )  Federal Bureau of Investigation

  Subject:  FLYING  DISCS
  MISCELLANEOUS =  INFORMATION CONCERNING

  There are attached for  your  information  tn
  the capttoned matter a Photostat of a letter dated
  January 20,  19538,  received by  this Bureau from
  Mr. Robert De  Wolf,  19 North Forsythe Street,  Franklin,
  Indiana,  with  the enclosures referred  to  therein,  and a
  copy of this  Bureau's reply to Mr.  Wolf.

  No investigation is  being conducted by  this
  Bureau  tn  this  matter.
  )  Yf  35 ya  27,  1952
  on

Mr,  Robert  De  Wolf
19  North  Forsythe  Street
 ‘ranklin,  Indtang

lear Ur,  Wolf:

  Your letter dated January 20, 1953,  has
been  recetved, together with enclosures.

  Although I would ltke to he of service
in conneotton with your request, I would ltke to
potnt out that the FBI te strtetly a fact-finding
agenoy and it ts not within the scope of tts
presoeribed authority to make evaluations or draw
conclusions as to the character or integrity of
any organization or individual,  I know you will
understand the reason for this rule and will appreotate  inability  to  be  of  tetance  to  you
tn  this  regard.

  he ltterature and letter  you forwarded
are  betng returned.

  Stneerely  yours,

JAN 28 1953
 MAILED 20  John  Sdogar  Hoover
  Dtreetor

lq = Indianapolis,  with copy ojfsineoming and copy of letter
  stgned by iIhert KX... Bender,
co -  New Haven,  with copy of incoming  and  copy  of letter
  stoned by  Albert K. Bender.
  TION  C's's'  (seeynext page)
GG te E18

jjiesi 30 1430.5
  Ta4
 wods  eR.  TANRTY
  o
  «
ATTENTION SAC's:  Correspondent  also  enclosed  a  copy  of
the  anuary 19, 1953  issue  of  “Space  Review",  the  publication
of The International  VFlying  Saucer Bureau,  indicating  the
address  as  Post  Office  Bor  241,  Bridgeport, Connecticut.
This  small  periodical  contains news  of various I.F.S.B.
groups  throughout  the  United States  and England and news
items  relating  to  flying  saucers.
  No  references  can  be  located  in  Bufiles  on  the  I. F.S.B.;
"Space Review" or Albert K.  Bender.
  JOHNSON  COUNTY

  DEPARTMENT  OF  CIVIL  DEFENSE
  MONROE AND JACKSON  STREETS

  FRANKLIN,  INDIANA

ROBERT D. WOLF

  Director  20 January 1953

  Mr. J.  Edgar  Hoover
  Director Federal  Bureau  of  Investigation
  Washington,  D.  C.

  Deer Sir:

  I would first  like  to  apologize  for writing to  you direct,  however, I  have
  cleared this morning with our State  Director end  he  suggests this procedure.

  We have been having  some  success with our  Ground  Observation Corps  as we  have
  four:  (4) posts here in the countye 4,
  é

  Last Fall I was contacted by one of our local business men wanting to know if
  I would be  interested in joining t¢  nternational Flying Saucer  Bureau.  I told  him
  that I would and did join with the idea fully in mind of having thé local people who
  are interested in Flying Saucers also work in our  Civil Defense Program.  We are
  only too willing to co-operate in any wey we can with Civil Defense.  The city of
  Franklin is approximately twenty (20) miles  southwest of Indianapolis,  on the dual
  lane highwey US #31.

 i]  I  enclosing a letter which was received last October, as well as the current
 [sesue °.  CE REVIEW, Would like to know if this organization has been cleared or
 { is subversive in any waye
  I would appreciate your expediting this  information  back to us  so that we will
  know what  steps to take  in further enlisting interested persons  in our program,

  If you do not require the enclosures please return them.

  Home Address:
  19  North Forsythe  St.
  Franklin,  Indiana.

  RECORDED-84
  INDEXED-84
  The

  International Wying Saucer Bureau INTERNATIONAL
  “All is possible to one who believes”  HEADQUARTERS
  P. O. BOX 241

  BRIDGEPORT 2, CONN.

  U.S.A.

  *

  Great Britain Branch
  71 Chedworth Road
  Horfield,
  Bristol 7, England

ROBERT  N.  WEBSTER
  1c” Magazine

  TUCKER

  Author
  Science  New

ELLIOTT ROCKMC
  Editor  -  Pi  her
  wcer Review”

GEORGE D.  FAW
  Lecturer - Sauceniana
  Collection

STANLEY E. CROUCH
  Editor - Science and  letter you esked what cours
  Culeere Magazine  1  »  should  take  connection  with
  1  t  the  folio  ?
FRANKLIN M. DIET
  Editor and Publisher
  “Science - Fantasy and  )  point  a  local  Chairman  of  the
  Science Fiction”  canklin,  Indiana.  2point
  *  asurer  and  secre

BRIT!  REPRESENTATIVE

—& L.  PLUNKETT
  Retired  Capt.  Sth  Army

  in  portion

  ained  o

  Bick  Campbe
  IFSB  ar
  The
  International Flying Saucer Bureau  Rapes
  . O. A
  s?
ALBERT K. BENDER
  and Editor  seuee’”
  it possible to one who believe
  “Al ‘All is  BallRCR  Sh ory
  Presiden:
MAX KRENOEL  USA.
  Vice-Pres. and Treas.
ALLAN C. RIEVMAN
  Secretary

  )II(

  ort to IFSB all reports and sightings in
  it area.  However, first put the sightings
  before your group and let them judge whether
  they  are authentic or mot.

  Ke  a  record of  all  clus  #  in your area
  and their activities as  fa:  as I¥S8 in concerned.

  ¢  n if possible (merely  a suggestion), a tape
  recordér so that you can send actual voice to
  IFSB heedquarters.  In this way, I as President,
  could send messages for jy  to play at your local
  meetings.  In the future I may even vay your city
  a visit and attend  one of  ir meetings.

  These are all merely sugvestiuns  for you to  ponder over
  f you decide to adopt any of them  lease  consult with
  ndiana kKepresent: tive,  Mr.  C  bell.  After you have
  is,  set  in  touch with  é  n

  sincerely hope  that these s  sestior  vill  hel
  ng some  ve  as  to  what  you  e  5  ill  do,

  Forever Looking Up,

  hott ‘Bunal!
  rt  K.  Jender
  ivent
  Space Reuiew
  Copyright 1953 by ALBERT  K.  BENDER

  VOL.  II,  No.  Jan lary,  19

>,  |FSB  OF  BRITAIN  ORGANIZES  FRANKLIN,  INDIANA JOINS EN MASSE
  L.  Piunkett  Appointed

  Form  O

  rganization

  Mr. Jack W  re,
  .obert  Wolf,  civilian  defense
  1  Mr. Dick (¢  ampbell,  IFSB
  for  Indiana,  this great ac-
  was made  possible.  At this
  Franklin  can  claim  2(
  towns,  givit

  i  nme  iWwo  were

  ind  Mr.  Moore
  »  are  viewed  in

  S LUHRING NAMED  YUR PRESIDENT HEARS FROM
  jEaTO Hi
  PUERTO  RICAN  REPRESENTATIVE
  PROF. EINSTEIN
  M  Ai  KB
  SPACE REVIEW

  SAUCERS IM THE NEWS
  UEZ, PuERTO Rico, Oct. 3,  1952—  WasHINGTON, D.C., Oct. 16, 1952—-The
  ge objects were sighted by two per-  Navy announced that it launched rockets
  Mayaguez on Oct.  3, they were  from giant balloons, high above the North
  ing East and were red in color. It was  Geomagnetic Pole, Pe sent them to alt:-
  t 10:30 p.m. when they were sighted.  tudes of about 40 miles. The balloons were
  as tal] as a 10-story building.
  RWAY  AND SWEDEN, Oct. 13,  1952—
  October the Norwegian Govern-  PARIs, FRANCE, Oct. 7, 1952 — A flying
 nent stated that a strange object resemb-  saucer was sighted over Southern France
ling a saucer landed on Norwegian soil.  y two Air France pilots.
German experts are claiming that the devices are of Russian origin, and the des-  WESTERN KOREA Front, Oct. 29, 1952

  ription given by Norway fits the descrip-  U.S. troops saw a half-dozen mysterious
  on given by German experts. Stockholm,  park-throwing ‘‘cartwheels’’ over the wes
 sweden, has also been sighting strange  ern front of Korea. They were as the eye
objects  ices, 18 inches in diameter, moving in a
  15-foot circle.
MELBOURNE, AUSTRALIA, Sept. 13, 1952
  -A  young  woman  sighted  a  noiseless  GAILLAC,  SouTH  OF  FRANCE,  Oct.  29,
green  ball flying too  fast to be a plane or a  1952-—For the second time in two weeks,
meteor. She sa  smelled like a rotten  20 townspeople of Gaillac saw a series of
  white circular objects, slightly swollen at
  the center, spinning across the sky, they
STUTTGART, ‘  wv, Nov. 1, 1952
  were flying in formation of two and were
 At the recen  ig of the third Inter-  grouped around something that looked
  ational Astro#  al Congress  in  Ger  like a giant flying cigar. As the objects
 nany where 200 w entists from 12 cor  passed overhead they. let fall a sort of
tries gathered they stated that saucers  string of bright white threads, which setnot from Mars or any other planet  tled gently  ees and telephone lines
said  they  are  merely optical  and  When the  people tried to pick them up,
  isfOns
  they melted like ice. A police officer who
  New YorK—A terrif air
  picked up some of the thread said: “It
  place over a small area of
  looked like glass wool and it melted away
  N_Y., which broke windows,  almost as soon as it was touched.”
  racke  walks  and  caused  general  OLORON, FRANCE, Oct. 17, 1952—About
  nic. There were no planes around
  a dozen people, including a schoolmaster,
  eduled at that time, Oct. 1952
  saw flying saucers surrounding a long cigar
  ERNATIONAL AIRPORT, NEW  YORK,  like object flying through a clear sky at
  kt.  16.  1952—A blue flame flashed over  ibout 6,000 feet.
  .  nal Airport at 7:33 p.m. It was
  New ZEALAND—The clippings and stor-
  ll-like object. Hayden Planeta-
  ies from New Zealand are swamping our
  ul stated it may have been the
  office and are so numerous that we must
  f  a meteor.
  devote a whole page to them in our April
  &k,  YORK,  ENGLAND,  Sept  20,  ssuc.

  During exercise “Mainbra  RAF
  2  a  white  object  a  000
feet.  The object was silver in color and  2 detatled information on any
circular. It  intained a slow forward  please  write to IFSB
speed before beginning to descend,  swing-
  g like a pe  It followed  the aircraft, revolved  o  own axis at  nes  your clippings that you send
and then took  is, and note the  source.
  SPACE REVIEW

  SUTTON, WEST VIRGINIA MONSTER MAY BE
  ““COLLIER’S” ROCKET!
  Rev. S$. L. Daw, Washington, 0.C., Representative, IFSB

  I have personally photographed flying saucers six times andFF eacgergee! photographed
the place where one landedin Charleston, West Virginia. I also talked to two eye-witnesses.
| saw and talked to a police officer who was burned by one in Wheeling, West Virginia.
My own cousin was the doctor who treated him.
  attempted to photograph one going over Melessa Pass, 5000 feet up in the Blue
Ridge mountains, as I was at a height of 2500 feet at Wahala Glen just directly opposite
from Melessa Pass. The picture was not too good due to the mist from the mountains.
  The object that landed at Charleston, West Virginia was described as a large metal
  throwing off a white light and after landing, two small men in red emerged from
a trap in the top and climbed up a tree to look 1sround. Seeing people watching them, they
got back in and took off. We can prove what this was: In the attempt to shoot rockets to
the moon, there is a device with the motors on the wings and the say of the device is
a jet Paes ellie apparatus which throws off a large seal the ed disc which throws off a
red  color  from the center which when reflected could easily  taken for some sort of a
prea g person. This was described in Collier's magazine of October 11, 1952.
  A. cording to the Washington Daily News. the monster seen at Sutton, West Virginia
could be the rocket described in Collier 5 magazine. The picture on the cover of the magazine shows a sphere-headed, wide-botr pmed, tank-bellied rocket craft spewing out burning
hydrazs ne and nitric acid as it lands hind-end on the moon. The West Virginia people
  1imed to have seen: ‘An object estimated at  10 feet tall, four feet wide at the bottom
  se of a man. Two lights flashed  from side to side, the machine made a noise
  ike gas escaping, and a sharp sicken  as about.” Sounds somewhat the same.
  The United States may be expe  ith something that the public is not aware
of,  and it is domng its best to keep  e  The age of rocket ships is just around the
corner.

  CIVILIAN SAUCER INVESTIGATION OF NEW ZEALAND
  CONTACTS IFSB
  The Civilian Saucer Inv  ge  of New Zealand was set up in New Zealand on
October 13, 1952.  They plat  e or disapprove the existence of saucers. It has no
affiliation with the Government  armed forces, of to any society to which its members
may belong. Most of the mem  have been studying flying saucer reports for at least
five years. They represent all u  sted parties  astronomers, scientists, aviators, and the
man in the street. The committee  sists of M: H. H. Fulton, a sergeant in the R.N.Z.A.F.
attached to  engineéring, who 1s  President » CSI of NZ; Mr. R. J. Lavaris, a member
of the Territorial Air Force, wt  the secret  »f CSI of NZ; Mr. G. H. Gilmore, aviation engineering inspector; D. Lavaris, a stu  studying for a science degree; and E. J.
Greager, an astronomer and eng
  Aims of the  committee «  orrespon  h kindred bodies overseas, and to ulti-
  nately find the origin of flying  sand tt  nparison.
  Mr. H.  H. Fulton, and Mr. R  La  cen made members of the International
  IFSB. We hope to establish  elations with this society and get a rep-
  New Zealand. CSI sent to |  arge map of New Zealand showing all
  rs have been sighted wit  ory of each  si ghting  A complete report
  made in our next issue.  &  CSI of New  Zealand the best of  luck
  y  will be a success.
  SPACE REVIEW

  EDITORIAL
  In 1492 Columbus discovered a new world after traveling thousands of miles across
the great expanse of unknown waters called the Atlantic Ocean. It was a great adventure,
yet one that was laughed at, ridiculed, and even spoke of as a ‘‘folly’’.
  Here was a small group of men searching for what lay beyond the known, endeavoring to unfold the mysteries of lands that were not supposed to exist. All they had were
three small ships laden with provisions that they estimated would last the journey.
  The seas were infested with monsters, so the skeptics said, and the world was flat
with a dropping off place. Columbus proved these fallacies to be wront, when he landed
in the West Indies.

  The years directly ahead of us will see amother great adventure such as this. A smadl
group of men will assemble in a certain designated place, climb into their ship, a ship
vastly different than that of Columbus's time. This ship will be a rocket shop, and its occupants will shoot off into the vast  sa of space to find new worlds, new peoples, and
new frontiers.

  They will be laughed at, they w  be ridiculed, and the whole thing will be called
the greatest “folly on earth, but will #t be such? Time has proven that impossibilities
become realities, the automobile, the airplane, radio, telephone, telegraph, television,
and the smashing of the atom are defimste proof. All is possible to ome who believes,—and
I am a sound believer!

  *

  FROM THE ASSOCIATE EDITOR'S DESK
  The mysteries of space have |  ascinated most people  on  earth. One need not be
  onomer to gaze in awe at th  it which unfolds before  che eyes as we gaze sky-
  any clear night.

  vastness of space is difhcul:  to explain, even for astronomers. When distances
  n of it is simpler  for  learned men  to use the term “light years” than miles. The
  f celestial  bodies  suspended  in  space  like our own earth are unknown. The
  re from millions on up, But they remain just that—guesses.

  who make our home on a mere cinder of matter in the eyes of space, cannot be
  gh to think that intelligent life exists only here. Those who believe that there
  for everything which happens, should agree that these millions of bodies in
  serve more of a purpose than just twinkling brightly on a clear night.

Published quarterly by Albert K. Bender, Editor; Max Krengel, Associate Editor; Printed
by Reliable Press, Bridgeport, Conn. Subscription Price: four issues, to members, $1.00;
to non-members, $1.40 per year. Individual copies $.35. Exclusive publication of the IFSB,
 P.O. Box 241, Bridgeport 2, Conn., U.S.A. Send all news and articles to this address /
  SPACE REVIEW

  SCIENCE FICTION NEWS
  Alan C. Riewman

  Victor Root, Illinois Rep. of IFSB, has  Owners of tape recorders or wire re-
 some Science-Fiction mags for sale, or free  corders.  Join  T.R.I.  (Tape-respondence
 in exchange. He is selling  them for a small  International. Send your voice to your cor-
 fee.  Write to IFSB for address.  respondents) 3488—22nd St., San Fran-
  cisco 10, Calif.
  The DECEMBER, 1952, issue of FATE
 nagazine is a must to all  IFSB members
  BORDERLAND  SCIENCES  RE-
 ind  officers. It contains an article by Cur-
  SEARCH ASSOCIATES located at 3524
  Fuller, entitled, ‘‘Let’s Get Straight
  Adams  Ave.,  San  Diego  16,  California,
 About the Saucers.”  A complete detailed
  would  like  to have  IFSB members join
 tory  of the  incident  of  the  scoutmaster
  their society.
described in our January issue, is discussed
with  a  picture  of  the  scoutmaster.  SUB-
  Many new Science Fiction Mags are hit-
 “CRIBE  TO  FATE MAGAZINE  AND
  ting the newsstands and some are good
KEEP.  -UP::*FO:  “DATE  ON  THI
SAUCERS.  Writ  806 Dempster Stree  while others are the usual run. A few of
  the better ones are: Tops in SF; Science
  Fiction Quarterly and Fantastic.
  New  Pocket Books on Stands: Dell No
627,  When  is Collide”  by Phili  Two good S-F books: “Robots Have No
Wylie  and  Edw  Balmer. Pocket  Book  Tails’ by Lewis Padgett and ‘‘Player Pi-
No. 908,  "New Tales of Space and Time’’,  ano’ by Kurt Vonnegut. Both humorous
  Raymond J. Healy.  line.

  Thanks to Ray Palmer  for our lette
the  December  issue  of  “Other  World  The officers of IFSB are planning on is-
  lark  Publishing Co., 806 Dempster  suing  a  12-page  booklet sometime  next
  St
Evanston, Illinois. Let's subscribe.  year with a complete record on all saucer
  reports that they now have collected. This
  NEW  BOOK  BY  VIKING  PRESS  booklet  will  not  be  a  regular  issue  of
  Across  the  Space  Frontier’,  edited  by  Space Review’, but a separate issue and
Cornelius Ryan, $3.95, Viking, New York  vil sell for 50c to everyone. Our Presi-
  ient, Mr. Bender, will write the foreword
  RANDOM HOUSE  HAS  DONE  IT  with comments throughout by officials of
AGAIN WITH  ‘By Space Shi to  the  IFSB. The booklet will be entitled: IFSB
Moon  written  by Jack Coggins  and  REPORTS ON THE SAUCERS.  If inter-
Fletcher Pratt, foreword by Willy Ley.  $1.  ested, write!

  SCIENCE FICTION NEWS-LETTER,
  We would like members and officers to
by  our  Council  Member, ‘Bob’ Tucker,
  send in snapshots of themselves so that
P.O. Box  702, Bloomington, Illinois.
  when the time comes for us to print pic-
  THE UNITED STATES ROCKET  SO-  ures in Space Review, we will have the
CIETY,  Box  29,  Glen  Ellyn,  Illinois.  hotos available.

  Hollywood  is  coming  out  two  MENTION "SPACE REVIEW” when
good  movies:  “War of  the Worl  and  writing to any of above mentioned pub-
"The  Conquest of Space’’.  ations.

  SAUCER  REVIEW,  by  Elliott  Rock  This page  will be eliminated in  future
more,  1  member of our  Council.  P.O.  Box
  j  TS  aes  a  |  ‘

  sues,  1
  and  will  be  replaced  by  articles  o
148, Wall  St.  Station,  New York 5, N.Y  saucers”
  SPACE REVIEW

  “MY THEORY”
  by IFSB Members

THEORY NO. 6—Submitted by BARBARA KNORR, Member from Connecticut

  Everybody seems to believe that the “saucers”, whatever they are, come from this
Solar System. I do not believe any other planet but ours can support intelligent life. Perhaps plant life, but not human.

  I do believe that if our planet can support life, why not other planets in other Solar
Systems. I do not believe that these pee  wish to destroy us because if they had they
could have done so long ago. Also, how do we know that these things we sce are not
beings themselves.

THEORY NO. 7——Submitted by Representatrve LOUIE MASONICK, JR., of Minnesota
  My theory is one most IFSB members seem to have. First, I believe they are from another planet. AH those stars must have something going around them. All those celestial
bodies must be up there for some reason, besides to look at. Then, also, they may even
be from our Solar System.

  I do not think an official agency of our government should come out and say—’'we
do not know what they are and whether or not they are a menace.” The best way to reveal
the objects would be through clubs like the IFSB. I do not believe that they are a menace.
I think there is intelligent life on them and that they are just observing us

THEORY NO. 8-—Submitted by Representative ALAN RIEVMAN of Connecticut
  My theory on the origin of the fying saucers’ 1s that they are definitely real and
are from one of the planets of our Solar System. I do not believe that they are from one of
the other Solar Systems. These “neighbors” probably thought that our planet could not have
intelligent life upon it, but with the  st atomic explosion they may have changed their
minds

  n sure that they are not from  barth because if they were ours it would be impossible  weep it quiet and if they were  trom a foreign government they wouldn't be flying
ove  uted States. They would risk being shot down and their secret revealed to us.

THEORY NO. 9—Submitted by Representative VICTOR ROOT of Illinois
  My theory is that the “flying saucers’ are manned ships controlled and operated by
intelligent creatures who are scouting our world. They will not try to make contact with
us for many reasons. One is that we are too warlike and emotional. Another is that we
have diseases which may harm or even kill them. Some day when we reach out and touch
the planets we may meet them. A  rae  of  intelligent creatures other than ourselves, certainly does exist.

 THEORY NO. 10—Submitted by  Al  AN STAZER, Member from California

  1 think that the “flying sauces  from the solar system of ALPHA or PROXIMA
 CENTUARI. Most likely the 3rd or 4th planet. The planet is probably about 4000 miles
 in diameter and two-thirds as big as the earth. Some other reasons are that Centauri is too
 far distant for observation of such a small body as a planet. This star is of about the same
 size and the same spectral, type-GO, as the Sun, Editor's Note: WOW!

  All theories become the property of IFSB and cannot be returned.
  SPACE REVIEW

  HIGHLIGHTS ABOUT REPRESENTATIVES
 DICK CAMPBELL, Rep. Indiana—Rep. Campbell has written
  us many interesting letters
 and aided in making his home town of Franklin the only
  city in the world with the most
 IFSB members. At present it totals over twenty. He
  was assisted by Mr. Louis Frahm, and
 Mr. Jack Moore of that place.
  *  *  &

  RONALI)  ALBERT,  rep.  Ontario,  Canada—Will be appointed
  Representative of
 CANADA  AT  LARGE. Doing a  fine job. Would like more Canadians to join club.
  dee

 VIC  TOR  ROOT, Rep. IHinois—One of our mast
  valuable representatives. He has spent
  reparing a map of the United States showing
  the places where saucers  have
  He is quite a i too; see his peem in this issue. Mr.
  Root presented the
  ws saucer map.  We  are proud of it  We are sorry to say that Mr. Root may
  o California in the near future.  It will be very hard to replace such an

  *  *  .

  ADDUS, Rep. Kentucky--Obtained two new members
  for IFSB. One of
  Mrs. Glenn C. Fuller, saw a flying saucer. Her report
  will be in our next
  Review”. Mr. Broaddus  1s spreading the word about IFSB.
  .  oa  *

 DIA  “OCHANAN, Rep. Iowa—  Obtained a new member, and has clippings she intend  d in to IFSB.
  .  *  «

 GAIL  SR AGUE, — Wisconsin—Gail is quite the cartoonis
  t. She sent in a cartoon
  really made the International Staff roll off their chairs. She showed the
  parlor
  :  with the  front door Open,  a  strange looking creature had walked in the
  door
  ving  muddy tracks on the floor. Outside can be seen a
  saucer  parked on the lawn. A
housewife  approaches the creature and  this is what she says:  “I  don’t care where you're
from. Look  at my clean rug.’”’ She also sent us a fine poem that
  appears in this issue. Gail
obtained a new member for us also. She sure is showing fine interest
  ed  *  ~~

ALLAN  LEVINSKY, Rep.  Maine——Claims that very few people are seeing saucers
  in
Maine.  Is doing his best to get people interested in IFSB.

  *  *  .

ROBERT R. RITTER, Rep. Tennessee-—Chalks up another member
  for IFSB.
  ee  ae

LUIS LUHRING, Rep. Puerto Rico--Mr. Luhring has sent
  us numerous clippings from
Puerto Rico about saucers. He plans to get as many people
  as possible to join IFSB. He
says that the interest in saucers is as great in Puerto
  Rico as anyplace else.
  *  *  *

S.  L. DAW, Rep. Washington, D.C._—We are happy to have
  for our representative in
Washington, D.C., the first member of the clergy, Reverend
  Daw. Mr. Daw. as he prefers
to be  called by club members, is doing great work for IFSB. We
  are anxiously awaiting
to see his actual photos of saucers,  that he took  himself
  *  s  *

RONALD  KINNEAR, Rep. New York—Took upon himself
  to advertise  in his own
state  and had 50 post cards printed and plans mail them out,  in his state.
  eke

  if  ire  not getting  any  reports  from  sop  f  our  Representatives,  It  is  absolutely
  ww)  that we hear  from you,  so please do your best to  get those monthly reports roll-
  SPACE REVIEW

  DIRECTORY OF R&PRESENTATIVES
  The following are additional represemtatiwes since our last publication.

  BRITISH REPRESENTATIVE—Edgar L. Plunkett, 71 Chedworth Rd., Horfield, Bristol
  7, England; Assistant Representative for Britain---Denis Plunkett
  PUERTO RICAN REPRESENTATIVE—Luis Luhring, Box 23, Punta Santiago

  COLORADO—Verna M. Hampton, 4245 Alcott St., Denver
  MAINE-—Allan Levinsky, 59 Atlantic St., Portland

  MISSOURI——Ralph Hetzel, 6 Scarsdale, St. Louis 17

  NEW JERSEY—August C. Roberts, 443 Ogden Ave., Jersey City

  NORTH CAROLINA—David T. Benton, Box 430, E.C.C., Greenville
  OHIO—Robert C  Schnelle, Sr., 714 McMaken Ave., Cincinnati

  OREGON—G. L  McColly, 524 Jersey St.,  Seiverton

  DISTRICT OF  COLUMBIA—Rev.  §  L. Daw, 5119--7th St., N.W., Washington
  WEST VIRGINIA—Gray Barker. Bex 981,  Clarksburg

  tbove names will not be publseed again. Additional names in future issues

  Anyone that wishes to Saba with other members will please send ms permission
  to print aoa name and address so that  others will know that you desire correspondence.
  We do not  publish lists of our members  names and addresses without permission from
  them.

  LET’S LOOK AT THE MAGAZINES
  READERS DIGEST FOR JULY  1@*:+  -Two articles:  “Have We Visitors frorn Space,”
  and ‘‘Flying Saucers—New  1 Nase Only.”
  RUE MAGAZINE, SEPT  195:  The Flying Saucers and the Mysterious Little Men.”
  OCT. 1952—"'We Flew Above Flying Saucers.”
  1952—'‘What Radar Tells About Flying Saucers.’
  MAGAZINE, OCT.  20, 1952——‘‘Moonbound,” Page 18.
  ER'S, OCT. 18, 1952  Man on the Moon.”
  CT. 25, 1952—''More About Man on  te  Moon.”
  Pi.  MAGAZINE, NOV. 1952—''How Do  Seacers Fly
  ?””
  SIR MAGAZINE, DEC. 1952—"'Flying Sasers and the Air Around Us.”
  MR. MAGAZINE, JAN. 1953—"‘Is Washemgron Afraid of Flying Saucers?”
  MAN TO MAN MAGAZINE, JAN  1953 — Flying Saucers Are Not New.”
  THE MYSTERY OF OTHER WORLDS REVEALED—A Fawtett Book No. 166. Ex-
  elleat.  A  four star edition—-one  of the finest to date in the  pulp line. Cost 75c. We
  ad  ee saucer-minded folk  *t this magazine. It is ae once in a great while
  t  lisher puts out  ne  publication. Contains news of Space Travel;
  Flyvng Sauxers; and Rocket  pment.
  These magazines are in the  LIBRARY is part of our collection. We will send
  written information to anyone  have questions on above magazines.
  Coming in Apnl “SPACE REVIETM  ‘SAUCE RITIS” by John Armitage of England.
  An article th  vill make you really THINK!
{
  A COMPLETE LISTING OF ALL OF OUR OFFICERS AND COUNCIL MEMBERS
  SPACE REVIEW

  TO ALL MEMBERS OF THE I.F.S.B.—
  GREETINGS FROM ENGLAND
  Capt. Edgar L. Plunkett, British Representative
  Are we on the verge of a breath-taking discovery? Yes, i believe we really are! To
  quote Captain Eddie Rickenbacker, ‘Too many good men have seen Flying Saucers for
  us to dismiss them lightly as hallucinations.”
  The nineteenth and twentieth centuries have produced a number of astonishing dis-
  coveries notably the dreaded atom bomb, and also has had to discard in many cases pre-
  vusly held convictions such as that ‘matter is indestructible’.
  Even the average layman today, due to increased educational facilities, and access to
  rature of all kinds, has a very good idea that \ife in all its forms consists of ‘energy’,
ind that this energy somehow links back to sonw  form of pulsating orbital structure like
unto the universe, but on an infinitesimally smaller  scale. Therefore, it is—to me at least—
quite believable that it ts possible that somewhere  —something—someone—has solved the
  Idle of this energy, etheric, electromagnetic,  «all it what you will. Having progressed
  far, it follows that given elements capable of wrthstanding immense stresses and strains,
  propulsion of what has become known as the “Flying Saucer’’ becomes a possibility.
  known that between the Sun, Moon, and owr Earth, and presumably between other
  iter-planetary and possibly interstellar bodies there exists magnetic lines of force, thus
  f some form of aircraft or saucer has control of the means or attraction and repulsion,
these  lines of force which by the way never touch one another, would form the perfect
highway along which to travel at the speed of light, and probably very much faster. It
would  also account for the capabslity of these so-called ‘‘saucers”’ to accomplish ie mah: ae
  1asmuch that these known magnetic waves emanate in all directions. Therefore,
  point of view of the  average thinking man in the street, I say, “I believe the
flying saucer does exist, and that the coming years will vindicate such men as Captain
Mantell, Kenneth Arnold, and countless other promeers in this field.” In conclusion, may
  I say to all IFSB members at home and abroad,  ‘carry on the.good work, and above all,
  io not be disappointed, discouraged or  deluded  by the jeers and sneers of the ignorant
so-called majority.”
  The best of everything for the New Year ahead '
  Yours  fraternally,  E. L.  PLUNKETT

  MYSTERIOUS CRAFT  OUT THERE
  by Gail Sprague
Out  of  the  dark,  mysterious,  depths  of  by Victor Root
  space,
Came strange looking craft at a trem  Out in space lies my destiny,
  dous pace  Out there, beyond the clouds;
  course was true, the third planet  Where winds have not yet blown,
  from the sun,  Where man has not yet gone
  it orders: Don’t return until your task  ie
  That's where I long to roam
  is done
  n they descended; some got out
  Out in space lies my destiny
  back in 24 hours,” the commander
  told the scout.  Out there, among the stars;
Time went fast, all returned.  Where night  is forever ruling,
Off  went  the  craft,  bearing  all  they'd  Wh  olitude is soothing
  learned.  he  :
%  ;  That  where  |  ng  to roam.
  The decision was reached, never again,
On  this small planet they'd ever land  P
  yrruption, prejudice and greed,  dit
  }  worst  of  all  planets,  il  To
  Out ¢
  SPACE  REVIEW

  SAUCER  SIGHTINGS 8Y IFSB MEMBERS
  Exclusive! From Franklin, inciema and Surrounding Towns

  1 the  morning of  July  28,  1952  in the skies to the southeast  and
  ‘ranklin,  Indiana appeared three strange objects. Their flight wa
  er of men of sound mind and chara  .  The following is com
  |  :  by Capt.  Lee  Sloan,  Patrolman Jack W. Moore  and
  nneth Rund of the  Franklin,  Indiana  Police  Department on Monday morn
  52 at  6:00 a.m. These of  were  witnessed  by policemen, civilian ai
  bers of the United  State  After notifying all proper authorities of
  finite steps were t  ’  y  or  otherwise. The report is as follows

  three objects, one  larger  rh  han the two smaller objects. The
  ee seemed to cast  off  lowish  hght.  Its pattern of flight seemed
  It seemed to  al  «  keeping  track of the two smaller objects.
  byects cast off a  distinct  it  of  ywn, one being an orange hue
  idish color. The  twe  ones  ed to  be in a dog fight all their
  I  0}  pins.  They made turns of 90 degrees  and
  of  ed, a  |  xing up and down  as if
  yc  The objects ma  single  sorties to the south
  »st  mmediately into view  again, joining the other
in a neat]  10w of turns,  ps  and spins. We  estimated their height at.approximately  hile their spec  aried from an  estimated  1500 miles per hour to an
estimat  5 per hour.  Fven woth  a pair of binoculars it was almost an impossibility  any exact shape  other  than that  they appeared te be  round and flat
as  a  sa  ere observed for  a period of four hours and fifteen minutes. Dawn
came  at  and all stars had gone around 5:00  a.m. At 5:03 a.m. it was bright day
light-  three objects were still visrble. T Their color did not  change in daylight
At Sila  1e larger of the thre  ‘cts  was joined by the two  smaller ones; the smaller
  ts  one  at  a time  disappeared  e  larger,  first  the  orange, then the red.  After
  ‘nvelope the two smal  e  t moved  4 to  the west out  of sight.
  The
  he three objects and t  appearance  irger took  exactly 40 seconds.
  were verified by:  |  g  Police  De  np  Atterbury, Ind.;  Columbus
  Police  |  reensburg  ept..  North Vernon Police

  or Minnesota

  esota about  2:30 p.m., April
  MPH and when it ascended their
  sable for  about  45  sec
  SPACE REVIEW

  EXCERPTS FROM A SUMMARY OF A FIVE-YEAR

  FLYING SAUCER INVESTIGATION
  By George D. Fawcett, Internationa! Council, FSB

  ave just decided to stop investigation that I began a little
  over five years  on
  f  the most fascinating mysteries of modern times, that being the
  well known  “  ying
  er  phenomena. Since the sumener of 1947 when the first
  saucer scare broke out in
  United States,  I have spent much of my time, money and energy seeking
  a solution
  iddle.  While carrying on my private investigations I was able to interview several
  ers,  scientists,  pilots and guided missile  experts, who had spotted these saucers
  had been investigating or studying thee strange objects. In addition
  to these
  have talked to many eye-witnesses whe had sighted these objects
  throughout
  states and have mailed questionnaires out to many others.

  bulletins and sc rapbooks on the saucers for the past five years, and while
  wrote a six-page pangedet entitled “The Flying Saucer Phenome
  na”
  eachers, and classmates.  | have
  lectured to several groups in Lynchburg.
  interested  im this  phenomena
  from the very first, my sighting of an
  ke globe which a  for  four minutes over the Lynchburg College ad-
  building in Lynchburg, Virginia, om the morning of July 6, 1951,
  has in-
  interest threefold simee then.  Tisat is @me of my reasons for stopping my inves-
  It's really too big a job for one  person  te handle. We must realize that we are
  vith a phenomena that is as fantasti  as i ts fascinating. Many of the reports that
  uble to gather in my collection  tend to back this statement.

  Some recent thoughts  about the  “flyeag  saucers”  are that  perhaps there will be some
landings  soon. This doesn’t seem  too  ned om that these  flying saucers are still being
seen  everywhere,  for longer  periods  o  ané  in groups instead of alone,  as well as
nore  reports of huge saucer or rocket sth  Then,  too, they seem to come and go at will,
serhaps being stationed as satellites thems

  el that our government  must ke  omeshing about these saucers because in my
  his very momen  United  §  s ¢  rnment is carrying on an educational
  egarding interplan  avel ¢  ur  “mantry. Perhaps space ships from other
  ire already here!  At  a  ute,  whether  ‘hey are  trying  to prevent religious con-
  versy  or panic  or for any othe  ves which  they might have,  our government is still
  ng,  denying, suppressing  ating  *eports at  intervals for some reason.
  ardless, the future will tell! In closing, I'd like to use a favorite phrase
  of Charlie
  Lynchburg College student who said, “things are really looking up.” I
  wonder
  hings aren’t looking DOWN, too; Sooner or later we're bound to find
  out, and
  | I  can say is, ‘‘the sooner, the  better.”’

  EDITOR'S NOTE:  Mr.  Faweett's discussions and opinions will be found in future
  Space Review.

  interested in receiv-
  SB” engraved on  a
  ler these emblems
  showing  ir  t  |  }  proximately $1.00
  1  as
  SPACE REVIEW

  WE WANT ¥OU TO MEET
  EDGAR L, PLUNKETT, BRITISH REP  RESENTATIVE—Born at Bristol, Glos.,
England, on December 26, 1903. Covered eww parts of the
  world as a radio y osrmad at
sea from 1922 to 1936, including the U 8.4, notably
  New York, Boston,  Baltimore,
Norfolk, Newport News, Tampa, Mobile.  wed many other  ports. Has many interesting
memories of the prohibition days, the gengeter era,
  Jack  Dempsey, Babe Ruth, Lou
Gehrig and other notable highlights. Has wacked for
  many years for Anglo-American
friendship and still corresponds with friends heer in U.S.A.
  Was called to service in 1939
Was rescued from Dunkirk Beaches by the french Destroyer L’Incompr
  ise on June 1, 1940.
Went to Middle East in 1941, and served thetagh three Western
  Desert Campaigns with
the British 8th Army. After fall of Tumit ®t: commissioned
  in Palestine and was then
posted in Egypt. Returned to England at tie md of the
  war after four and a half years
service overseas as a Captain. Now emplewed ty his original firm
  as a clerk.
  He has a wife and three children, the: gee are Denis 21, now with the RAF, Diana
18, and Michael 14. Hobbies are writing  eed reading and other journalistic yearnings
including poetry, plus an unabated desire 9 travel. Since the formation
  of Civil Defense
a year or so ago, he has become a qualified wnsteuctor and
  lectures three evenings weekly
to industrial personnel.

  Mr. Plunkett has shown  great intesw in IFSB activities and will without a doubt
prove to be our most valuable  foreign repeesentative

  Associare Eprror
  (Next Issue-April 1,  1953)
soo>  oe  SSee  re  ——

  POST OFFICE BOX 241

  BRIDGEPORT 2, CONN.

  U.S.A.

  Return Postege Guaranteed

  To

  Mr. Sovert  D.  Wolf
  19  N.  forsyth  St.
  Franklin,  Indiana
  101553
  oe STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE
  FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

In Reply, Please Refer to  abe
  gap Grosvenoragreed
  Square  :
File No.  »
  London,  W. 1  K  S
  Heed

  tet - ATR COURIER
  February 17, 1953

  .
  To:  Director,
  * FBI  Za 4
  From:  Legal Attache
  aa  London, England
  Subject:  "FLYING SAUCERS"

  “  Major E. P. Walkers, Provo Marshall at the U. S. Air Force
  Base at Mildenhall, England, telephonically contacted writer on
  February 1h, 1953, regarding the new or revived interest in
  "flying saucers."  He stated he did not have any new information
  to report but did know of an incident that took place several
  years ago and which the Bureau may desire to check.

  This incident, according to Major Walkers, concerns an article
  or story on "flying saucers" which appeared in a small newspaper
  rith limited circulation in the Towmmship of Jeffersonville, Delaware
  Township, Sullivan County, New York. He was unable to recall the
  name of the newspaper but was certain it is the only one published
  in that area.  The story appeared in one of the early 19l:7 issues or  )
  in one of the issues during the last three months of 19/6. It was  ) Us
  written by a member of the U. S.Armed Forces and of significance is  si
  the fact that subsequent issues failed to follow it up by carrying
  additional stories on "flying saucers." Also significant is the
  fact that it appeared in a small and practically unknown newspaper.

  Major Walkers states he is merely reporting this for what it
  may be worth and is being forwarded to the Bureau for any action con-
  sidered appropriate.

  -  WUC
  -~

  JAC: CFJ  <4 =
  aCe  -

  | | ue es
  eels?
  cys  <t  4

  —

  “|  a

  ome
  iit  .U idsl ) Al
  [4
NOILOSS NCSIVE
  62-83894- J2-]

RECORDED - Al .,,  March 6, 1953
  To:  Director of Spectal Investigations
  The Inspector General
  ryV.130  Department of the Air Force
  hive  The Pentagon
  Washington 25,  De  Ce

  From:  John Edgar Hoover, Director
  Federal Bureau  of Investigation

  Subject:  FLYING SAUCERS

  The following information has been received by
  this Bureau from tts representative in London, England, con-~-
  cerning  the captioned matter:

  Major E.  Pe  Walkers,  Provost Marshal,
  U.  S. Atr Force Base, Mildenhall,  England,
  telephonically contacted tke writer on February 14,
  1953, regarding the new or revived interest in
  "flying saucers.”  He stated he did not have any
  new  information  to  report but he  knew of an
  tneddent that  took place  several years ago which
  this  Bureau might desire  to  check.

  This incident, aceording to Major Walkers,
  concerns an article or story on "flying saucers”
  which appeared in a small newspaper with limited
  ctreulatton located at Jeffersonville, Delaware
  Township, Sullivan County, New York.  He was
  unable to recall the name of the newspaper but
  was certain tt is the only one published in that
  area.  The story appeared $n. oné of the early 1947
  tssues or tn one of the tasues during the last three
  months of 1946.  It waa written by a member  of the
  U. S. Armed Forces and. of gignificance ts the fact
  that subsequent tssues' failed to follow tt up by

  ——“AILED 67
  Or
  £4
  e

  |g. COMM: FBI|
Gehe'tsgg any
FINLSOL 30 4d390'S |
  Ia
 HOOY VM  9AIg7 Ay
  carrytng addtttonal stories on "flying saucers."
  Also significant ts the fact that tt appeared in
  @ emall and practteally unknown newspaper.

  Major  Walkers  states  he  ts  merely reporting
  this for what it may  be worth.

  The  above data  ts  being furnished  to  you for
your  tnformation and any action you  destre  to  take  in connection
therewith,  tnasmuch as  this  Bureau  ts  not conducting any  tne
vestigations  relating  to  the  captioned  matter.
Office Memgondagn * UNITED ee GOVERNMENT
  ji”
  1 Ae He Belmonth  pate:  March 10, 1953

  :  Le  He  Martin

  (2)
  FLYING SAUCERS
  JOHN BAILEY, INFORMANT

  JohnNGailey  called  from  Bowie,  Maryland,  at
  9:05 Pees 3/9/.  to advise that he had just seen a
  flying  saucer nean  that  city.  He  was  vague  as  to
  details  and  nonresponsive  as  to  where he was  calling
  from  and  as  to  his  residence.  When  asked  where  he
  planned to stay  tonight, at least, in order that
  Air Force might  interview him if deemed advisable,
  Pailey  said  the  writer  wanted  to  know  too  much  and

  disconnected.  Since  no  specific  information  was  furnished
  and  since  the  call  may  have  been  a  prank,  the  Air  Force
  was  not  advised.  Since  no  identifying  information  was
  obtained,  no  attempt  was  made  to check  Bureau  records.

  Recommendation:

  File.
  153 FY-J23
  March 22, 1953
  Director of Special Investigations
  The Inspector General
  Department of the Air Force
  The Pentagon
  Washington 25, D. CG.

  Proms  John Edgar Hoover, Director
  Federal Bureau of Investigation

  Subject:  FLYING SAUCERS

  At 9:05 p.me on March 9, 19535 an individual giving his
  name as John Bailey telephonically contacted this Bureau and advised
  he had just seen a flying saucer near Bowie, Maryland. Mr. Bailey
  was vague as to any details in this matter and would not furnish any
  information concerning his residence or the place from which he was
  making his telephone call. Wo additional pertinent information in
  this matter was furnished by Mr. Bailey.

  The above is being furnished to you for your information and
  assistance in the captioned matter.  No investigation is being conducted
  by this Bureau concerning this matter.

  7  -
  JR
  ¥

  ES  Lhe

  Ceuwaey
  a  :
  ~wALINS

Tolson —
Ladds=  >
Nichols
Belmont ____
Clegg —_ ane
Glavis —___
Harbo ____-
Rosen  aa
i pa
Laughlin
Moke oo
Winterrowd
Tele. Rm. ——
Holloman
Gandy_.___._
  TRANSLATION FROM SPANISH

  Valparaiso, March h, 1953

  Director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation
  Washington
  United States,  North America

  Subject: Individual who may possibly be connected with
  » flying ‘saucers. _

  Dear Sir:

  In writing to you who directs the influential Office of
  Investigation which has international connections, I would like to
  state the following:

  1°-a)  I had the opportunity to read in a "Chilean" police magazine, in
  the section entitled,  "Perfect Escapes," the escape of Dr. LINKE
  (42 years old, widower, who someltime in 1950, in London, was arrested
  on the 8th floor of the Building of Departments (?).  The reason for
  his detention was his possible collaboration with VLADIMIR VLASAV in
  "divulging to foreign governments English aviation secrets".
  )

  In his attempt to get away, which occurred between | and 5
  in the morning, a strange thing happened,  “when the police came near
  the 8th floor, the whole building became dark, the elevators stopped
  and the telephones and loudspeakers became silent. When the police
  arrived on the 8th floor with their flash lights,  they immediately
  went off.  (Nevertheless, he was arrested at 6 A.M.).

  b)  Dr. LINKE escaped from the Kent Prison (a few days after
  he was imprisoned) and according to statements of the author of the
  article,  which should be accurate, he did it in the following manner:
  Between 12 midnight and 2 A.M.,  in rainy weather, Dr. JULIUS LINKE
  disappeared under the following circumstances:  the electricity,  elevators,
  telephones,  and flash lights of the guards would not function.

  l/
  TRANSLATED BY:
||  GMARY APOSTOL: bad
|  March 12, 1953  %
  S  6

  {2

  1958
  According to the article, among other statements of the
guards, was the fact that between midnight and 2 o'clock rain fell
in torrents and for a few moments there was complete darkness because
the lights went off. A guard tried to ring the alarm which would set
off the siren, and it did not work; he yelled to another guard but did
not get an answer, and his voice sounded very "distant"; although he
tried to warn his chiefs personally, he could not run or even walk
fast (he had to walk slowly).

2°),--A little before the fall of Berlin, "the motors of autos and
trucks stopped unexpectedly," without any apparent explanation; after
one hour they succeeded in starting them again.  During this occasion
it was commented that "something rare occurred in the atmosphere."

3° — About three months ago I read in a local newspger about the "flying
saucers," with the reservation that perhaps they would be speculating
about the flying saucers; however, it is undeniable that they were
telling the truth. It stated that, according to the article from a
news agency, an officer and his associate who were flying a plane saw
a "flying saucer." They followed it, but it, as in previous cases,
whirled about and could not be reached.  However, the flying saucer flew
very high and then it began a rapid descent; it stopped a few seconds
on the officer's airplane, paralizing the motors of the airplane,
(according to statements of the aviators).  later the disk flew very
high and was lost  from view, and the airplane motors began working.

  Any inference from the above statements — according to my
way of thinking, -- that these facts may appear to be imaginary, is
dispelled by the statements of various witnesses on each occasion, and
therefore they are "scientific" facts.

  If on two occasions paralization of electricity occurred, as
well as what we may call paralization of vital forces (in the case of
the guards), and in said cases "the interference of one person,"
Dr. LINKE, is inferred, why could not Dr. LINKE also be connected with
the other two cases (2 and 3)?

  It may be that all this is not in any way related and that the
flying saucers are nothing more than what has been given as a scientific
explanation, but the "strange force," about which our ancestors have not
spoken to us in history, we cannot deny.
  I submit for your full consideration all I have said, my
only motive being "human interest for human affairs" and my desire for
the progress of humanity, for a good future full of dignity and
cosmic evolution.

  Without further particulars,  I remain

  Sincerely yours,

  S/ FRANCISCO TRONCOSO SILVA
  Casilla 1857.  Valparaiso
  Chile,  South America

P. S.  Please acknowledge receipt of this letter.
motivo  que
  so  de  la
  March  23,  1953

  AE GORDEL
  INDEXE(,/
  D
  Ure Frangtaca WroncéstX@s ea
  Castilla1857  :  2
  Valparaiso, Chile

  Dear Ur.  roncoso:

  I  want  to  take  this  opportunity  to  thank
  you  for  your  letter  of  March  4,  1953.

  The  interest  which  prompted  you to make
  your  observations  avatlable  to  me  is  sincerely ap=-
  preciated.  Since  your  communtcation  may  be  of  in»
  terest  to  another  governmental  ag  cy,  I  am  taking
  the  liberty  of forwarding  a  copy  of  it  to  The  Hon-
  orable,  The Secretary of the  Air  Force,  The  Penta~
  gon,  Washington 25, Ds. Ce

  Sincerely  yours,

  John  Edgar Hoover
  Director

  ce-Foreign  Liaison  Desk,  with  copy  of  incoming.

  copy  by form,  Secketary  of the  Air  Force.

  BLT 3b1t  f  K

  Tolson  .  \303"
  nt
  cS We
  _  A)
  Pypl
  ;  FBI
  Tele. Room—
  Holloman —  MAR  |

7  APD  93
  st) L-MAIKED
  A  §  We
 STANDARD FORM NO. 64

 Ce?Memorandum e UNITED STA’  GOVERNMENT
 To  ,  DIRECTOR,  FBI  pate;  4/28/53

  Mp  SAC, SAN JUAN (65-330)

 SUBJECT:

  On 4/27/53 a report was received from Majo  1
  Wing Intel1i,  Eos Officer, Ramey Ai  rece Base, Puerto Rico.
  The substence of this report is as follows:

  > persons observed an unidentified flying object at 11:30
  on 4/8/53 at Fort Suchanan, Puerto Rico.  Statements were
  f the vwitnesses,  among whom were three  Captains
  f the  U. S.  Army, as well as a civilian.  they
  described  the object as ea bright ster or a bright ball of fire
  at a great height,  and it was moving rapidly et the  time  it was
  observed.

  tnesses observed one RB 36 aircraft which hed been
  re  area at the  time of the  sighting of  this unidenti-
  fied object.  The Wing Intelligence Officer reported that there
  were two RB 36 aircraft in the  area at this time.  These aircraft
  were reported  to be  flying  at  12,000  end  21,000 feet respectively.
  None of the  persons:  from  whom statements  were teken were able to
  accurately describe  the  object,  other  than  by  the  statements  set
  forth above.

  This  matter  is being reported to  the  Bureau for  information
  purposes.

  CLOSED.

  FDO!

  RECORDED-i2

53 MAY 111953
  rec

  ank  yor  or  ‘
  jour  letter
  avatla

  Tnasmuch  as  information  contai ned

letter  comes  withir  h  tsdiction  of
of  the  Air  Force,  u  urnished  a  copy  of
letter  to  that  Department  for  appropriate  attention,

  Sincerely  yours,

  are  negative:  re Mrs.  Robert  Davissone
sguusar ol dae Sy
ech  Bod  ae
sinh  AAIVIANG
  Mey Ly, 1953

  Director of Special Investigations
  The Inspector General
  Department of the Air Force
  The Pentagon
  ashington 25, Ds 0.

  From:  John Edgar Hoover, Director
  Federal Bureau of Investigation
  ‘exe
  Subject;  FLYING SAUCERS

  There is atteched for your information and assistance
  in this matter a copy of a self-explanatory letter dated May 9, 1953,
  received by this Bureau from Mrs. Robert H. Davisson, 26 Olcott Street,
  Watertown, Massachusetts,  Mrs. Davisson's letter has been acknowledged
  by this Bureau and she has been informed that a copy of her letter
  has been referred to the Department of the Air Force for appropriate
  attention.

  Attachment

  Boston (Under Separate Cover)

Holloman
Sizoo
Miss Gandy
 jc Wd €2  21  Wp
J0SAr 40° 'd30. on

  3A2994
  26 Bleotf Sly

  Taey 9, [45 3
  1]
  |}

han Sui :-  CM24. 7 Hn)

  Maunadag Heresy aay PM
  f t Ac tu rt  C  A  .  7 ) ad
A  h  cl ing 2b
  Y e  por ke m  te
 plead
  e  A t o  .  x  Fepy  undk *
‘o  aaa uke
v  yo ac fraum - ae Sp oy
  dune “ ta que Cree aA ete
PAU OH - me a  acon ct Liyt
  mM  , &
  ai plare
fwte
  cyto Aotind, }

  +  a  s t h  n a n
  mn
  g ce l
  ean. atu  ae =
aw  pratt - prrgavtally oe  p-  gorh w
  an  «pe ade
  A  wyte  mt  elm
  sete lint-  wre
  athe
  in  ge: cay Bos
  ve REOOBDED AB. cc0 57
  +  nM

  INDEXED “99
  |
  MOOS
hn A  Bnrived Lim
 he  hw
gg - daduOowd/- <i  $4 — 33
  July  9,

 woeKed Sy, eats f 2
  -resident
  frand  Hotel
  Mackinae  Island,  Michigan

  Dear  Mr,  Wood fill:

  Your letter  of June  30,  1953,  has  been
  received  in Mr. Hoover's  absence from the  city,  and
  I  an  taking  the  liberty  of acknowledging  its  receipt.

  Your communication  will be brought  to  hie
  attention  promptly following  his return to

  Sincerely  yours,

  Helen  W.  Gandy
  ecretary

  cce-Detroit, with cop of lintoming.
  cc-Cincinnati,  with copyop incoming.
  ATTENTION  SAC:  Yow are instructed to thoroughly
  check your files in an effort to determine whether rd
  or not the Mr. Stevenson referred to by correspot@ens
  has been interviewed by an Agent of your office. TM You
  should also furnish the Bureau any information Dhichn
  w
  might assist in clarifying the story set forth dby>
  Vood fill.  Sulet results no later than July POR 953E,
  under caption "Mr. Ww. S.  Wood fill,  President,  Grand  =
  Hotel, Mackinac Island, Fe, faba: Research (Crime 2S
  Follow-up made for—July
  inquiriesXZqclocer.
  _105ar yt
  f suc iphehomefa
  Eagerae
  Reco  rds). "
  NOTE: Although
  are being handled by the Air Force at this p Pes eft
  time,  it is believed desirable  to check the sourgen
  of this  rumor and following necetpt  of reply Proa
  Cincinnati,  refer correspondent '3: inquiry. tovthe “Atr2¥orce.
  In 1939 and again in 1940: Wood fill invited the Dtrec#or
  to attend the Michigan Hotel Convention, and-both iniitations
  were declined. An informant reported that ipl 945 4
  / gambling on Mackinac [sland— was.reserved for the trand
  Se eal “4  FET}
  COMM  2
He eu HPL: b1t X  sui. 10 195 3
  1
  ¥
  i
  MAILED 27}
  HES ae as cA
  V/
  rad Hote WORLD’S  LARGEST  SUMMER  HOTEL

W.S.Wooprite President

  Omse

  much  more

  714 BBP
eds & Mw
sgusnit.ad 1d3u's 0
  ‘nw  4  °
  a
yoLgguld ~ ySAIT9SY
  oh % Ws. sm]  mM
  ee vse ss ol
  4)  1430'S
I  can only  believe  that  the  account  is a  lot  of nonsense,  insofar  as  the  FeBele
telling  the  farmer  that  the  goverrment has  captured  several  "flying  saucers",
end  thet  they  are  from Mars,  and  that  a  Martian  is  being held  captive  in California.
It would  be  apparent to me that  if the  government  did  have  such  knowledge,  they
would  not  confide  such  info:  tion to the
  farmer, -- and moreover
utterly  fantastic  to  credit with recognition as true. The farmer no doubt
a "flying saucer",  a light reflection or other light phenomenon such as th  e
  govern=
ment  has  said  all  such  things  really  are,  and  not  a  space  ship  from  Mars  or  anyother
place  in  outer  spacee

I am writing  to hopefully  secure your advice,  insofar  as you can properly advise
me  publicly  as  a  citizen,  of  what  the  truth  is  in  this  storye  I  should  1i  to
set  my  relative  there  straig  nd  r  1  "  the  real
story  is  about  this  farmer  ~  Mr. Stevenson  of the  Circleville,  Ohio  ar

  1
  President
  TELETYPE

  x
  FBI“ATLANTA  71-8-53  11-0-2 AM  ~  JB  f  as

  DIRECTOR, FBI  URGENT  MW!
  FLYING SAUCERS, MR, TOM MCRAE, - ATLANTA CONSTITUTION- cil 6
  COMPLAINANT,  THREE FORTYFIVE AM THIS DATE MCRAE TELEPHONICALLY FURNISHED

  FOLLOWING -FANTASTIC TALE - ASSURING  THAT NEITHER  HE NOR  ANY MEMBER

  oF -GcoNSTITUTION- STAFF HAD BEEN DRINKING BUT HAD WITNESSED THIS
  STORY,  MCRAE  STATED EDWARD E,.  WATERS,  ONE  EIGHT  FIVE  FIVE  PEACHTREE

  RD,  NE,  TELE  ELGIN  NINE  FIVE  SIX  TWO,  CALLED  ON  HIM AT NEWSPAPER OFFICE

  STATING HE  ANDTWO  OTHER COMPANIONS WHILE  TRAVELING  IN  CAR  ON  BANK-

| HEAD HIGHWAY ABOUT MABLETON, GA. ENCOUNTERED THREE SMALL ANIMALS WHICH
| THEY BELIEVED HAD LANDED FROM SOME PLACE IN FLYING SAUCER.  WATERS

  INFORMED  MCRAE  THAT AS  THEY APPROACHED  THE  THREE  OBJECTS  SSTARTING

  MAKING  THEIR  WAY BACK TO WHAT HE  BELIEVED  A  FLYING SAUCER,  THAT TWO

h oF THE ANIMALS ESCAPED IN SAUCER BUT THIRD WAS KILLED WHEN HIT BY THEIR
|  AUTOMOBILE,  WATERS  DISPLAYED OBJECT OR ANIMAL  TO MCRAE AT NEWSPAPER

  |  OFFICE,  MCRAE  STATED ANIMAL  DID NOT RESEMBLE ANYTHING  HE  HAD  EVER

|  SEEN  BEFORE  BUT  LOOKED  AS  IF  IT BELONGED  TO  MONKEY  FAMILY.  ANIMAL

|  MEASURED AND FOUND TO BE APPROXIMATELY TWENTYONE INCHES LONG, HAD

  |  RATHER  POINTED  HEAD,  LARGE  EARS  AND  SKIN  WAS  PINKISH.  DUE  TO

  | EARLY MORNING HOUR MCRAF  VABLE TO LOCATE SCIENTIS  EXAMINE
  oe  et]
  | ANIMAL BUT DID HAVE ONE OF Hy es poe  AI  CITY EXAMINE IT.
  EX  JUL24 1  :  pee
  iis  (0k ral  ard  je
  2
  aa
  o
  m

  40 “LeaC
  =
  m

Cr  a  T@4
  >
  i
  re

  SAF  b>

ouoaye HANS Yo3y
  GeHssee 6 Ue
ey

  MCRAE  STATES VETERINARIAN  WOULD  NOT  COMMIT  HIMSELF  BUT  VET  POINTED

  OUT  HAD  NEVER  SEEN  ANIMAL  IN  MONKEY  FAMILY WITHOUT  HAIR  AS  THIS  ONE

  NOR  HAD  EVER  NOTED A  DEAD  ANIMAL  THAT  DID  NOT  TURN  PALE  AT DEATH.

  VETERINARIAN  STATED ANIMAL  HAD  HAD A  TAIL BUT  SAME WAS  MISSING  AND WHEN

  |  QUESTIONING  WATERS ABOUT  SAME  WATERS SEEMED  SOMEWHAT SURPRISED  BUT  STATH

  IT WAS  POSSIBLY CUT  OFF  IN ACCIDENT,  MCRAE  ADVISED WHERE  WAS BLOOD

  AROUND  MOUTH  OF  ANIMAL  CAUSED  BY  ACCIDENT  WHICH  RESEMBLED  HUMAN  BLOOD

  MCRAE  FIRST  THOUVHT  WATERS POSSIBLY  TRYING  TO  PULL  PUBLICITY  GAG  DUE
  S
  TO RECENT  NEWSPAPER  STORIES  BUT  BELIEVED  HAD  THIS  BEEN  HIS  MOTIVE  WATER

  | WOULD HAVE TIMED HIS VISIT BETTER AS THEY WERE ABLE TO PRINT ANYTHING
  | AFTER MIDNIGHT,  MCRAE STATED NEWSPAPER WOULD POSSIBLY RUN STORY ON
  ABOVE  FACTS  TODAY,  ATLANTA  INDICES  NEGATIVE  ON  WATERS.  ABOVE

  FURNISHED  IN  VIEW  OF  POSSIBLE  PUBLICITY  THIS  DATE.  NO  INVESTIGATION

  |  BEING  CONDUCTED  THIS  OFFICE  UCAB.  MATTER  REFERRED  TO  OSI  OFFICE  NINE

  | AM EST TODAY.

  CARSON

  END  AND  ACK

  LINE  X  SIX  SHUD  LAST THREE  WORDS BE  WHXX  THERE  WAS BLOOD

  YES  THANKS  ALSO  LINE  10  SHUD  IT  BE  THEY  WERE  UNABLE

  YES  OK  TY

  12-11  PM  OK  FBI  WA  RD

  V
  1

or -BconstrTuTION-
  STATED

  RAE  THAT

  AY BACK

  ANIMALS  ES

AUTOMOBILE,  WATERS  DISPLAYED  OBJECT  OR

OFFICE,  M  STATED  AL  DID

  ¥  BEFORE  BUT  LOO}

ANIMAL  BUT  DID  HA  THIS  CITY  EXAMINE  IT.
  fe

  |X
  ie
  I
  RIAN  WOULD  NOT  COMMIT  HIMSELF  BUT  VET  POINTED

  T  HAD  NEVER  SEEN  ANIMAL  IN  MONKEY  FAMILY WITHOUT  HAIR  AS  THIS  ONE

  NOR  HAD  E\  NOTED  A DEAD  ANIMAL  THAT  DI  T  TURN  PALE  AT DEATH.

  XINARIAN  STATED ANIMAL  HAD  HAD  A  TAIL BUT  SAME  WAS  MISSING  AND  WHEN
  Q  TIONING  WATERS  ABOUT  SA  WATERS  SEEMED  rcuniy  SURPRISED  BUT  STATE
  IT WAS POSSIBLY CUT OFF IN ACCIDENT,  ?  ADVISED 9 {ERE WAS BLOOD

  T  WHICH  RESEMBLED  HUMAN  BLOOD

  POSSIBLY TRYING  TO PULL  PUBLICITY  GAG  DUE
  TO RECENTNEWSPAPER  STORIES  BUT  BELIEVED  HAD  THIS  BEEN  HIS  MOTIVE WAT
 WOULD  HAVE  TIMED  HIS  VISIT  BETTER  AS  THEY  WEREVABLE  TO  PRINT  ANYTHING

AFTER  MIDNIGHT,  MCRAE  STATED NEWSPAPER  WOULD  POSSIBLY RUN  STORY  ON
JaBovE FACTS TODAY, ATLANTA INDICES NEGATIVE ON WA  Se  ABOVE
 FURNISHE  LN  VIEW  OF  POSSIBLE  PUBLICITY  THIS  DATE,  NO  INVESTIGATION

 BEING  CONDUCTED  THIS  OFFICE  UCAB,  MATTER  REFERRED  TO  OSI  OFFICE  NIN

AM EST  TODAY.

  CAR

END  AND  ACK

LINE  X  SIX  SHUD  LAST  THREE  WORDS  BE  WHX  WAS  BLOOD

YES  THANKS  ALSO  LINE  10  SHUD  IT  BE  THEY  WERE  UNABLE

YES  OK  TU

12-11  PM  OK FBI  WA  RD

Vv
  The
  Litile

  Wasn't
  Edward Watters
  and two friends
  said they saw

  cer and flew off
  in a blaze of,
  light. Mr. Wat-
  ters exhibits
  the “man from
  Mars” but an
  anatomy pro-
  fessor called it
  a skinned
  monkey,

ENCLOSURE  4
  Washington Daily News 7/9/53
  ¢SAUCER)
  ATLANTA+=TWO BARBERS AND A BUTCHER PRODUCED A 21-IWCH LONG “CREATURE?
  TODAY TO BACK UP THEIR TALE THAT THEY HAD SEEN A FLYING SAUCER AND THRE
  ELUSIVE LITTLE MEN AFTER CONSUMING ONE BEER APIECE,
  Al ANATOMY PROFESSOR SAID  HOWEVER » THAT THE CORPSE THE EARTH MEN
  SUSPECTED WAS FROM OUTER SPACE APPEARED TO BE A MONKEY.
  THE MEN WERE CONVINCED IT WAS FROM OUT OF THIS WORLD,  THEY SAID
  THEY RAN INTO IT WITH THEIR AUTOMOBILE WHILE DRIVING ON A HIGHWAY NEAR
  HERE  LAST  NIGHT,
  RIGHT THERE IN THE MIDDLE OF THE HIGHWAY WAS THIS THING, GLOWING
  RED ALL OVER,” SAID EDWARD WATTERS, 28-YEAR-OLD BARBER.| IT LOOKED
  LIKE_A FLYING SAUCER PICTURE HE HAS SEEN IN A SCIENCE MAGAZINE, HE SAID.
  “THREE LITTLE MEN WERE RUNNING FOR IT," WATTERS CONTENUED,  “THEY
  ALL JUMPED,  T@O OF THEM MADE IT. I HIT THE OTHER GONE."
  WATTERS SAID THE MACHINE SOON ROSE INTO THE AIR AND ZOOMED AWAY,
  HE SAID IT WAS NOT MORE THAN WAIST HIGH AND ABOUT HALF AS  WIDE  AS
  THE  ROAD,  {
  WATTERS* COMPANIONS, ARNOLD PAYNE, A aces AND THOMAS WILSON, A
  BARBER, TOLD THE SAME STORY,  WATTERS SAID THE  INCIDENT OCCURRED ABOUT
  MIDNIGHT AFTER THEY HAD CONSUMED ONE BEER APIECE.
  DR. Wy Ay MICKLE,  ANATOMY PROFESSOR AT EMROY UNIVERSITY,  EXAMINED
  THE ANIMAL,  WHICH MAD BECOME A VICTIM OF AN AUTOMOBILE ACCIDENT,
  MICKLE SAID IT LOOKED LIKE A MEMBER OF THE RHESUS MONKEY, FAMILY,”
  ALTHOUGH IT MAD  NO  HAIR,
  “IF IT'S A CREATURE FROW OUTER SPACE, THEY HAVEN*T INVENTED ANYTHING
\\  NEWS,"  HE SAID.
\  WATTERS DECIDED TO FREEZE THE THING WITH DRY ICE AND PUT IT,
  ON DISPLAY  (
  “2/8--N6S3P  pee. to Seer
QECORDED-12"
  JNDEXED-124
  DATES  July 10,  1953

  EX-103  ctor of Special Inv
  Inspector Genercl
  rtment  of  the Air
  ttagon
  Shington  25,  D.

  John  Sagar  Hoover,
  ederal  Bureau  of

  llowing  informction  was  furnished  to  the
  ice of  this  Burec  245 4,¥,. on
  ur, Tom-tckae,  itlenta Constitution”
  reporters  fi  cRae stated ur.  iward  i
  Peach Tree Roc  Northeast, Atlanta, G
  number  Elgin 9562, contacted him at the
  "Atlanta Constitution” and advised as /

  According to  Waters,  he and  two  e  panions,
  while trovelling tn on Gu tomobile on Beni  Ht gh  in
  the vicinity of Mableton, Georgia, encoun  e
  animals which they believed had landed fre  ng
  aters advised as he and his companion @  the three
  he
  onimals started making. their way back to wh  8 belteved
  to be a flying saucer. According to  rs,  two of the
  animals  escaped in the flying saucer but &  third was
  killed when hit by the automobile in which  Waters and his
  companions  were  ing.

  3  to Mek  s displayed the ani
  ed to hin a  ¢  "Atlanta Constitution
Tolson
  weRae stated  animcl did not res
Ladd
Nichols  ne had  ever seen  beforg  but  t&plapket  as  though
Belmont
  elonged to the monkey family.  ceording to  McRae, the
  ointed
Clegg
Glavin.
  imal was approrimotely 21 inches long, hed @
  » lorge ears and pinkish sWife’  *Nezge stated because of
Harbo —
Rosen
 Tracy
Geary  ——  te  early morning hour he was unable to'loce  a scientist
Mohe
Tincerrowd  to  eramine the cnimcl, but  he didchave  on@W“Y  the  leading
Tele. Room
  veterinarians of Atlanta,  Georgia,  exanine ite
  comm — Fel|
Holloman —
Sizoo
Miss Gandy  —

  FHM:d jb  Bae
  es
  Pat  y  1,91953
  MAILED 27
ES Wd%2 Sg} up
SJILSAL  30  -Ldga  sca
  UcRee  advised  the veterinarian  would  not
conntt. himsel  ut the  veterinecrian pointed  out he had
never seen Gn animal  in the, monkey  family without hair
nor had he ever seen  a dead Gniuai  that did not turn
pale  ct  death.  According  to  UcRGe,  the  veterinarian
stated the animal's teatl wos missing and that when he
had questioned Fatere Ghout the missing teil Yoters had
seemed  somewhat surprised  and  indicated  it had possibly
been cut off in the Gecident.  McRkGe  stated  there wis
blood Ground the mouth  of  the animol,  which  resembled
human  blood.

  At  the  time McRee  furnished  the  above  information  to  the Atlante Office  of  this  Bureau,  he  stcted
neither he nor any menber of  the "Atlanta Constitution”
newspaper stoff had been drinking but had witnessed the
above.  McRae stated he first thought Waters. had tried
to pull @ publicity gag in this matter; however, it was
McRae's opinion if this had been Waters’ motive, Waters
would have timed his visit to the newspaper office better
es the newspaper was unable to print anything on the story
after midnight.  McRGe informed the  Atlanta Office of this
Bureau the “Atlanta Constitution” newspaper would probably
run a story concerning the information set forth above.

  It  ts  noted  your  office  1  telephonteclly con=
tected  on  the morning of July 9,  1953,  by @ Liaison representative  of  this  Bureau  concerning  the Gbhove  matter.
The above  is  furnished  for your  information and  no  investi-~
gation  is  being conducted  in  this  motter  by  this  Bureau.
  July 24,  1953

  Mr. W.  S.  Woodfill
  President
  Grand  Hotel
  Mackinac Island,  Michigan

  Dear Mr. Woodfill: Oe SE SS a  3d5
  RECO! UEYYour letter of June 30, 1953, was brought
  to my attention upon my return to the city, and I
  want to thank you for making this information available
  to  me.

  I wish to advise that the situation which
  you discuss  in  your letter does  not  pertain  to  any
  matter within the investigative jurisdiction of the
  FBI.  Obviously, therefore, no representative of this
  Bureau conducted the interview with Mr. Stevenson which
  you describe relative to "flying saucers.”

  Sincerely  yours,

  J,  Eagar  Hoover

  MAILED
  11
  John  Edgar  Hoover
JUL 28 1953  Director

  Cincinnati
  Reurlet July 15,  1953.

  NOTE:  Ur. Woodfill's letter  of June 30,  2
  a farmer named Stevenson of Circleville,» Ohio, mad repc rtedly
  seen a@ flying saucer und had been subsequently Mnterv tewed
  K  on the matter by representative of the  7 oMry Woodfill
  desired  to  iknow  if this  were true.  fon)
  Bulet of} July.9, 1953, to him was an "In-gpsence" reply,
  containing.a noté foniSac, Cincinnati to determine the basis
Tolson
Ladd—___

  of the rumor! sCineinnati letter of July 15, £852, indicates
Nichols

  that Stevenson was interviewed on July 14,  pss at that time
Belmont
Clegg  ———

  Stevenson indicated thut he had been inger®iewed on the
  subject by one Jack MW, Grant of Columlus, Ohio, who made the
  statement that he (Grant) had once been "checked" by the FBI.
Wincerrowd —
  Cincinnati files reflect no prior interview with the farmer,
  eee Rural Route 2, Circleville, Ohio.
Tele, Room —
Holloman —
Sizoo
  who is Bruc¢ i
  ia

  Wer’
Miss Gandy —  i"

  ULL: dep.
  ,  yet od
  ‘
  STANDARD
  FORM NO. 64

  3 Office M Mr andum  UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT
  TO  ?  DIRECTOR, FBI  DATE:  July 15, 1953

H JF mmon : SAC, CINCINNATI  (105-0)
  «

  i. SAWOODFILL, President
  Grand Hotel
  inac Island,
  ARCH - CRI

  ReBulet dated 7-9-53.

  Sheriff CHARLES RADCL}FR,  Circleville, Pickaway County,
  Ohio, advised he is cognizant of Dah sing saucer" report made by Mr. BRI
  S!  NSON,  Rural Route  2, Circlevillé;-Oni6s~  According to Sheriff RADCLI
  Mr. STEVENSON  reported that a  saucer-shaped object had landed  on his  farm
  some  time  ago,  and  this  report  entually reached local newspapers.
  June,  1953, an individual dis  d the matter with Mr.  S  e
  RADCLIFF advised that this  person did not,  to  his  knowledge,  represent
  himself  be  an FBI  Agent.  Sheriff further declared that  he  has  known
  BRUCE  N  all  his  life  and  that  he  is  a  prosperous,  well-respected
  local  farmer, who  is  considered trustworthy.

  BRU  ENSON, Rural Route  2,  was interviewed  7-1)-53
  at, which time  he  stated  that  shortly after  he  received  some  publicity regard

  ix Sere who gave his address as Post Office Box 5112, Tri-Village
  ing  his  report of  sighting a saucer-shaped object,  he was visited  by one

  }  on,  Columbus,  Ohio.  According to  Mr. S'  NSON, GRANT told him he was
  a salesman of  television antennas,  and that  for over six years  he  had
  been  pursuing  the  hobby of  investigating  "flying  saucer"  reports.  He
  emphasized  that  he  had  no  official  connection  any part  of  the  Govern-
  ment,  but  stated that  he  had  once  n  "che  d"  by the  FBI.  Mr. STEVENSON
  declared  that GRANT  showed  him pictures  of  "  ing  saucers"  and  told  him he
  was writing  a book  on the  subject,  which  would be  published  soon.

  A  search of  the  Cincinnati  indices  revealed no  information
  identifiable  with either  BRUCE  STEVENSON  or  JACK  W. GRANT.

  DOE:VD
  - F356, 337
 “chaNeeD
  10
GA -fo21030 ~ fy
  g
  Office MisMsedins * UNITED 90s GOVERNMENT
: Stanoano rons iia. 04

  TO  +  Director, FBI  aa  DATE: 4/12/5h.

  SAC,  Newark  (62-0)

  INFORMATION REGARDING  NEW
  PRINCIPLES OBXAERO-DYNAMICS
  ALOIS  PIVEC  -  INFORMANT

  Enclosed herewith are photostats of parts of two letters
  furnished by ALOIS PIVEC and his wife, OLGA PIVEC, both of 16)
  Hallstead Street,  Hast  Orange,  NJ.

  Both photostats  are  in German and concern the  development
  of a new principle in aero-dynamics and alleged attempts  by the
  Communists in Austria to obtain this information.

  There is also enclosed a blind memo, setting forth the
  summary of the information in the letters and the circumstances
  under which  they were  obtained,

  This  information  is  being  furnished  to  the  Bureau for
  whatever action  is  deemed  appropriate.

  The  indices  of  the  Newark Office  are negative  regarding
  ALOIS PIVEC,  OLGA PIVEC  and ANOLPH  DORNIG.

  Encls.  (7)

  ec  NK 100-17007

  REGISTERED MAIL
  Man Gate err.
  E om H-1haha
  toh eshestln. oti Pink fer he Gorm idesmrgine
  thefin we. lending 4K < eh Aeoowreg om
  4

  on matinee Gondingte A,  vers

time gama at one 4d, >  el
  rahe ver Lag
  a pa Baigptel- Deh releui  tn

Sah brine, thle rwehln  ~  Avfavsine Gris Mont hichetons st
ai Rinphin By A, ha dale vob ank hls, Ab tok wor Chiao vm dar Sobran
tober, 6 Dey tit Coimmater ——A
  Ha — ot. Catrina Bsoteorver vehntb. |
inch aznt dort. Lhelle mote  Ahtey fair tae Read, , hare Force Amma
wie vee  chevy acto  mat Bite Bain Airovtetan
  nego Alte.  foots
brtfasithe in t's Shut, , dur baackla
  ~ 2h duatin Wot por pag re
Fatt mls Gecirhtrhlacy, hhaMe abn sent Wifi rosin wink racthnv'a 0 apg
gh ‘one wah wot
  bm Godlor meat tle  [oP Vow tainn'y om. Zager  met
bie Marv wri der rll
  bac, emir., den amis fe delat wry?  aA Heme
Fe:  wf—-4, angle dass » Se”  hah teh «how vvh, mar a; Sayan
Ae  ran) drairnv0n , 42h Mate then awishterllornntn. aber rakerrhar hat
ce th hen, — Dudek  wrock her wee i Bipolar, DR vohaginle Hie
Aramis om Aadlthd, mon emia (10 208 Vhowone) * dahnort han Meine, Ae,
 seh wid My bimmal Lath'o Haorate'  fe, defor
  iak mom wntirnran. rgchann aie
  y Athen ontliek  ey handled Crom ig hel Secttand Yard) 7 eevarie Angaton
 sha die tertcksn  Ween Fey a ahha wat col. Hichenpmtnn
  eon ne Walwa
  dts Ge. Finke  Hatin oltte. madan .2.~, Ah gui
 ath, in An,  sot dria ganaeWich merreht ork tai meio Ef neh  all
  Yohei wma  Vawusthin “oe tyre. RLarnars thirnrets , Meme trrovne Dug uhan
 Aringire thin, xg Manbina ania file. | Wissen we wh tin Kier ctor
 arog vhs hane aly mobirk
  aw AG3%  auaginatva
  erm, Adler aivck Obailagedar Jenteal;
 Mina We  J  AUSTA  Vogel hat
  tn oeimin Ballin Waorrerrer  Sahek
 wove
  1 AAG OL fuvdlrh  raghe , del?
  hie hore
  meer tv
  ree  sedan  .
  aid aor  §  wind  ie dat nonin thie fi  we  a A

an dey  Lenn gore. Ait ton notin Wimnh ot aot der tl ty tec tee
 MR sutton ome Bs bes ff  on an Loendeht Lactot
  bath nk anit |
torink
  ch mwa, deh tit.Robrece
  seca nat  hiwoash,  ass hdsien
hor ink deooh Be.  Gi  #)  :  t¢  Gfinezs

mrntlen. 90:1 A933 aXe msi Varrricke
  an: Ae Uh tm Mrenmin pron
  tla mah
tinGhent nora Nithihlamcthcdion Cippmakeg) wel cen, Kya ewe gece
Acree, 22tet-rmons aLley Haring gale Hh met USK recht
  tm Virhesrndte

Fry amy seta mharok mweht moda Mimecr , Ove Buk wreath
avin”  never, Agente win rhabes hither. Als teh i's Contlay
  on. vekatebe magn

Pre
  en FES clon. Ontiny memati, eh hare
  Hie ming. Syma
  , se vhtoh
  t.
  Bg  MW ae  ry
  fy Ke?  wees |
  “3  2  SEWN ~ Anas pt  }

  HOLY wees T Seman HED sant
  adss
  _ aerate SAR AR Den ade. wdbMe
  3 EWR Bore ee  Maas  oe Qale  SR ee aS Miccces Satan Sores.
  et Qoects Des aye  ewes sedate  ee oe  cee Jordatnen repo
  Sow candk ok vies ca as ve ods aR matory pd
  | ay ies nade Seder rE =Noten® - | edd  ws AK alae te Somers, Serweeebe
  wa NadQor ASN
  ar seen AVURE ames ae aceon sebeile  StS eins
  ea PG pa UG Cahora VHD eepaere SS  | ek agers odds gnBAT
  eR
  RE sate ADRS seer Bes BH Leda Senate Sade ds eg athens hee
  eee  Med cody, ASK sy NSS AWAD nie SSENE | Sane segs Sos  Eso
  SWSrve ade Tench wnsesen snlen eet ET  WANA LR. conten GSS. J cree deere
  aay Sonn ercachenanvenian wee aWe® Nu Son  39  RD Sree
  ee hey Kaa BEAN Seales etnre Shon. sh  chute side ot sash
  [SCNER ser ttae Nhs cisee NOR Seen adn MRE Abeer das ea
  Sahen. oes Se Yootes wT AS,  So Len ne Ronk Nes des Nek,  |
  a  SESS Aguas oh Siren Aa ots Sire eeeat
  SeAES ae Neen Doverets aedbin Doth So een 8 SR yy Wade yee Sete Fee  eK  |
  AS oa dicnshes shy annus Sister ey orc Jee ree cctansy  ‘  |
  wevess Seine AE GES  ods Mecine AD Nove KG  — Ae—he  deter
  BBS oes reread Wren ded | (en
  iS ster are), Seems  aeeasen ds WWE  aye
  ae perenne sree AVAL. NN med GG Senet ah fy Yo
  }  age someone yay Westhead ed eed) Mas ok a Dede co ‘ sokquec
  eR CRA SHS Deceee Pde Fe ogee EST nt!  Ni. as hedkteele ste wt,
  Aye Nec ee pales tists an Selte: dee Det Dees coin ee
  Sd rt NB tare: Mak Sher Afbotansre
  AP eng vette Se sa oh Keon
  ee SOc
  SAD | eet  See E nance 20  ‘S Jemen Yan
  spandce CMS WR GL  ate ge ccdt | QPUY tree anes sik  ich tae
  Panny
  nee ASD Sens, STATts ont mt gaun LEWD Wise SeecQioees pO aa indhon
  Sushil
  ye  treed Le SQ RR eeeeee 1? Sak SN WARTAK  NY  g9 ceed
  Swe Sergent aadeee
  A crenceerneeeodh 28 Oye uy  Sor eedh's Pa  fy ON Prrwen,
  Sar Sushi se  am hey OA \Srohentoan wtdk boy Sagdtio Anco  pire
fae d3a, con a Nas reed eae Sno eR suthen ien oat  boy wong  oe  9a  on
  een  Se eee SS, NNN  Yet CRS ek eeesde Nae Stak
  peeaFuse coeSD Masc o  protic dsho fel  a Dor oe Sos Mewes,
  aay arte Sa Woke Woedteateed))
I 5 ASR anagem  4B Spares hee ah
  sccrepaatenne Gran ans Gansartcananmmire hewaiitan  NID Nee ietinn
|  Sermon SDN Qee ney ener ants MRI Se ie DEER acaeee  we Saker
  EER

)  eee taSY nats hee NEDA BES Digs A SA sneer hoe (ove
|  sine St Monee Sy BON -Seeremer Qines ca Qe Cmte Sed HC i  uae  |
  Noster ered  eB Qt  one Maren Sonne bee actoe Ce yA
  NF tone, “shea wasmayhesD os Seek NSE A aie. canagh aeia Dyeae  |
  \

  ale  BUA as 0's
  TRANSLATION FROM GERMAN

  Item #1

  12-21-53

  Mr. ALOIS PIWETZ
  164 Halsted Str.
  New Jersey,  U.  S.  A.

  Dear Mr. PIWETZ,

  Your brother will probably have communicated with you about
  me  as we became acquainted with each  other  at  a  construction job.  I
  told him a few things about inventions or utilization.  Dear Mr. PIWETZ,
  be not angry with me because I  am now turning to youe  I hesitated such
  a long time as  my wife does not wish to  go abroad.  Enclosed I am
  sending you 2 inventions, that is, ideas and I leave it to your own
  power of judgment whether one or both, or none of these inventions
  is suitable.  If one seems to be profitable to you, you should apply
  for a patent in your own name as the best possible way and enter for me
  and for yourself 5% each of the net profit and 10% for your brother.
  I am giving you entirely a free hand,  as you will undoubtedly try to
  attain the greatest possible profit.

  And now, dear Mr. PIWETZ, I am taking the liberty of telling
  you something about an invention which the entire world wants to have.
  (I am only writing the most important facts.)  Before the war I intended
  to make a toy,  something which flies,  and purely accidentally I discovered
  a hitherto unknown aerodynamic law.  I experimented further.  I improved
  and informed several comrades.  They were enthused and emigrated to
  South America.  There they tried it on their own responsibility.  People
  were killed and they failed to perfect the  incomplete invention.  They
  approached me again.  As they were only artisans,  these flying machines
  were,  of course,  built primitively.  The first experiments to fly with
  a motorcycle motor attained the result of 250-300 km.  Not bad for the
  years 1938-391 With a powerful motor they then flew 2600-2800 kn.
  (hour kilometers).

  Dt  ED

270  NOV 19 1964
  After the war they came to me again and told me about their
misfortune, that about 60% of all flights had been fatal.  To make
it very clear, they wanted to find out how I construct my flying
apparatuses,  because with a device, which endangers lives,they could
not,  of course,  appear before the public,  and,  therefore, all this is
still,  so  to speak, a private secret.  In America,  this flying
machine is called "flying saucer," and since among my former comrades
a quarrel broke out and they distrust each other and none of them has
the intelligence,  which this invention demands,  they have not progressed
over there.

  I imagine that they have stubbornly adhered to some construction,
that is,  become involved in it that they cannot advance.  It has taken
me years to reach the point where I can already say with respect to the
construction plan that now the machine issafe for flying.  Thereby I
am losing, however, some speed,  but,  in return for it,  safety is secured
and this is the main thing.  This machine is so very simple in its
construction that,  if  one  gives me an engineer and experts,  I can build
this apparatus in 5 to 6 weeks at the most (but only experimentally
for a crew of 1 to 3 men).  Then this machine attains, with an autemobile
motor of 80 to 120 h.p. about 700 to 1,000 km.  If a firm would exist,
which does not shun the costs,  I  can,  because of the simple construction
of the machine, build the first machine immediately in such a manner that
it exceeds the 2000 km. limit per hour.

  Because of the new aerodynamic law it is possible without
any difficulty (everything without propellers) to reach such speeds.  \
Now the idea has come to me to build some kind of popular flying machine
which is cheaper than an automobile.  One does not need any
starting or landing strip and one would have a travelling speed of
about 500 to 700 km. per hour.  I believe that America would be the
most favorable place in the world for it.  You will now understand that I
am very anxious to  establish  contact with a firm which is  greatly
interested in this invention.  But as I have no knowledge of English,
it is for me,  from the very beginning,  an affair which will come to
nothing.  If you,  dear Mr. PIWETZ,  can start the matter, you will not
have done it in vain.  I  am not niggardly and besides I want to go
to the U.  S.  A.
  to realize there a still larger project for which I
need co-workers.  The circular flying machines shall bring me the money
for my further future plans, for I believe popular flying machines,
accerding to my model and besides 100% safe from crash, will be a
gigantic business.  I do not know the magnates over there; perhaps
HENRY FORD or an airplane factory, possibly a helicopter plant would
be interested in it.
  ae  ®

  But I shall announce the names of my comrades only after
I have received a contract pertaining to license or gratuities and
after my arrival in the U. S. However, it must be added that I shall
not lay out the money for the passage if some firm accepts me for the
construction of the flying machines. But in addition to all that I
need someone wno lives over there and who knows the English language,
and now I am asking you, my dear Mr. PIWETZ,whether youc an
function as my manager as they say in the U. S. A. Well, you know
that the manager receives payment, and I believe that you will
enjoy working with me later on inventions when I am over there.
Incidentally I mention that I took a course as a chemist,(The "Do" apparatuses, later called fog - or rocket-missiles, originated with me
and also many other things.) I hope that you can decipher my
hieroglyphic script. Such small writing is not in my line. So that
you may see that I am not exaggerating, I declare upon oath that the
invention, known by the name of "flying saucer," is my own, that I know
the men who are building these machines in South America, and that I
can construct the above-described machine myself and attain at least
2000 km.

  /s/ A. DORNIG.

  I hope that you will be interested init.  I am awaiting
your communication very hopefully.

  With friendly greetings,

  Respectfully,

  /s/ ADOLF DORNIG
Item #2

ADOLF DORNIG
Waidmannsdorferstr. 80
Klagenfurt - West

Dear Mr. PIVEC,

  I have received your letter of 1-12, on 1-19.  Many thanks
for your efforts.  With joy I have taken cognizance of the fact that
you have  already contacted American authorities  concerning my invention.
However, I have no great hopes,  because I  know that with the  U.  S.
everything is  defective,  exactly as with the English.  - Example:
Already a long time ago I wrote 2 or 3 letters to the U. S. authorities
at Salzburg and I was in Salzburg myself during the past year, but
everything wes  in vain.  - At the most,  in response to my letters,  some
Russian agent comes; that is all.  When I wrote in Switzerland at
first to President TRUMAN and then to President EISENHOWER through an
official bureau, also everything was of no avail.  In the end, always
Russian agents come.  In May 1953, a big dirty pig arrived who wanted to
make me believe that he would take me in an automobile
  to  the emigration
office for Austrians in Switzerland.  He enraged me to such an extent that
I hit him in the face with my fist.  But he had also helpers and I am
not sure how it ended.  I awoke,lying on the ground, and all had disappeared.
Several days ago a man approached me at my working place who only pointed
a finger upon me, saying: "You!"  When I looked at him; he quickly ran
awaye  I could not recognize him,  but seemingly he knew me.  - But
the English are even more stupid.  I wrote to the local city commandant's
office about my invention (just like to you) but no reply came. When
at one time I accidentally listened to "Radio Canada," I learned about
my statements.  Those people  said that  one had finally succeeded  (possibly
Scotland Yard) to obtain exact data on the German flying saucers and
that one would, therefore, establish a research station in Canada with
English experts, etc.  I wondered whether the entire world had gone crazy.
I offer-my invention for sale, and those people make such
  a noise about itl
They will never perfect the machine without my data.  Well, I let you
know that I am somewhat in the bad books here; strictly speaking since
  1937,
because of our  eagle,  also called misfortune.  Our  coat of arms,  the bird
 of Austria, has in its claws hammer and sickle, and wnen I announced
 in 193(?)7 in public that the communist symbols also appear on our
 money, the gendarmery arrested me and told me that I was crazy. Since
 I repeatedly declared that a “red dog" sits in the government in
 complete secrecy, everything has failed. But that since then an
 information has always been based upon the word crazy, I do not believe,
 although I know that the communists have always guarded me very strictly.
  fundamentals
 Furthermore, I accidentally (relatives) discovered theAmerica
 of Russian atom physics (a law ef nature,  unknown to  ) and,
 therefore, since 1933 all my attempts to  get into the U. S. A. have
 been frustrated in every respect. I cannot journey to that country.
 Since I (relatives) also exactly knew the most secret Russian
 communications methods (apparatuses) and the system, they are doing their
 utmost to prevent me from establishing contact with the U. S. A.
 I hardly believe that it will be possible by normal means. I shall not
 place myself into an airplane again! The Americans do net know
 how many Russian agents are with them. After I had written to the
 Pentagon about my invention, a rejection arrived. From Salzburg I have
 never received a reply. Seemingly, the English have lost my address and
 when I reported to the ecg FSS that I can construct the Russian
 apparatuses, I received...

*)gyaminer's comment: This communication is incomplete.
  ADOLPH DORNIG

  On Jamary 12, 195), ALOIS PIVEC, 16) Hallstead Street, East Orange,
NJ,  appeared at the  Newark Office and advised that he had received a letter
from one ADOLP)  RNIG, Waidmannsdorferstr 80, Klagenfurt, West Austria,
on about December 20, 1953.

  PIVEC stated that the letter requested him to attempt to sell
a number of inventions, which he, DORNIG, had developed.  PIVEC stated that
the request was to contact Aircraft Companies and Sewing Machine Companies
in the United States and attempt to interest them in these devices.

  According to PIVEC, DORNIG requested that no governmental agencies
be contacted.  ee that the inventions, which DORNIG had developed
were new type of-Sewing machine and a flying saucer.  PIVEC stated /that he
came to this office because he felt that the flying saucer was of some
importance in the national defense of this country.  PIVEC stated that he
has never met DORNIG but that DORNIG was given his name  'S brother,
FRITZ, who resides in Graz, Austria, and who is employed at Siemens-Yalske
Belegier Gasse ll, Graz, Austria. PIVEC stated that his brother workedwith
DORNIG, at one time, and he believes that DORNIG is a chemist or some type
of engineer.  PIVEC stated that the contents of the letter seemed fantastic
to him and that if the letter were not written in such an intelligent manner,
he would have doubted DORNIG'S sanity.  He stated that DORNIG claims to
have sold a new principle of aero-dynamics, which made it possible to
construct a practical flying saucer and that DORNIG had developed a model
that flies without the usual hazards.  According to PIVEC, the letter
continues by stating that DORNIG has been in contact with other men throughout the world, who have been attempting to develop the saucer and that he
has been the first to win real success.

  By way of vast ecl tet stated that he was born in the
vicinity of Leoben, Austria in 1925 and arrived in NewYorkCity on March
29, 1952 from Bremerhaven, Germany. He is employed at the Public Service
Laboratory in Maplewood,
  NJ.  \

  on January 30, 1954, OLGA PIVEC, 16) Hallstead Street, East Orange,
NJ, appeared at the Newark Office and advised that she was the wife of
ALOIS PIVEC. She stated that another letter had been received from ADOLPH
DORNIG, by her husband, ALOIS PIVEC. She stated that her husband did not
want to furnish the information in this letter to the FBI.  She stated that
he was not aware that she was furnishing this information and wished to keep
the interview confidential.
  Mrs. PIVEC stated that the letter received recently by her
husband, from DORNIG, contained information that DORNIG had been contacted
by Commnists in Austria, who wished to take him to Switzerland in order
that he might further develop his new principle of aero=dynamics. According
to the letter, DORNIG has continued to refuse any offer by the Commnists
and wished PIVEC to increase his efforts to sell ale  new invention
in the United States.  14°
  \  a ftsten4 am  Wh
  By way of background, OLG:  advised that she was born of
German parents in South Russid.and at the time of the German invasion of
Russia,  during World War IT,  she and her  family were resettled in Germany.
After the war, she married ALOTS PEVEC and came to the United States with
him  A
  May  18,  1954

  Director of Speetal  Investigations
  The Inspector General
  Department of the Air  Force
  The Pentagon
  Washington 25, De Cs

  From:  John  Edgar  Hoover,  Director
  Federal  Bureau  of  Investigation

 Subjects  FLYING SAUCERS
  MISCELLANEOUS  -  INFORMATION  CONCERNING

  BIZ
  There is attached a copy of a memorandum dated
 April 12, 1954, captioned “Adolph Dornig” which contains
 information furnished to the Newark office of this Bureau
  by Alois Piveo  and  his  wife,  Olga Pivee,  both  of
  143 Hallstead Street,  East  Orange,  New Jersey.  There  is
 also  attached  a  translation from  the  German  language  of  the
 parts  of  the  two  letters  furnished  by, Pivee  and  his  wise
  to  the  Newark  office.

  The  files  of  this  Bureau fail  to  reflect  that
 Gny  investigation  has  been  conducted  by  this  Bureau  of
 Adolph Dornig, Alots Pivee, or Olga Pivec.  In view of
 the information set forth in the attached memorandum dated
 April 12, 1954, and  the translation of the parts of the
 letters referred to  herein, no investigation is contemplated
 by  this  Bureau  in  this  matter.

 Agyptaent
 co - 1 - Records Administration Branch (Alpfiocumth t)
  Attention:  Criminal  Division
  (by Or 6u.form on same date)
  h

- EHMsplv_  \
  i  /
  FEDERAL BUREAU RS
  RECORDS SECTION

  Sasi ee ey 1954
 ("J Name Check Unit-Room 6523
 Ed Attention
 [Service Unit- Room 6524
 (Forward to File Review ,
  t.
  Siparvisor Ge
 CReturn to2éze-  7

  Room  Gl

 COAII References
 J Subversive References
 (7 Main References Only
 C Main  References Only
 Co Restrict to Locality of
 (2 Breakdown  [1] Buildup (Variations
 (3 Exact Name Only
 CO Exact Spelling
 (Check for Alphabetical  Loyalty Form

SUBJECT
Address

Localities
Birthdate & Place

  Searcher
  Date <//  Initial

  FILE NUMBER  SERIAL
  :
  FEDERAL BUREAU See
  RECORDS SECTION

  Z/A3_,  1954

 [1 Name Check Unit-Room 6523
 ES Attention  (Aa  20
 (Service Unit- Room 6524
 ("1 Forward to File Review
 G=)Return to  Ext.
  Supervisor  ¢
  Room

 CIAI1 References
 5 Subversive References,  }7 o-  =<
 (7 Main References Only
 (7) Main_____ References Only
 CT  Restrict to Locality of
 (2 Breakdown C1 Buildup CVariations
 C3 Exact Name Only
 Co Exact Spelling
 (Check for Alphabetical  Loyalty Form

SUBJECT
Address

Localities
Birthdate & Place.

  Searcher
  Date “44 Sinitial
  FILE NUMBER  SERIAL
  s
  FEDERAL BUREAU Cae
  RECORDS SECTION

  F/AZ ,  1954

 ("J Name Check Unit-Room 6528
 EJAttention  Lott
 [LD Service Unit-Room 6524
 (Forward to File Review
 (Return to  asburq Ext,
  Supervisor
  (
  Room  AT

 CIAII References
 E24 Subversive References
 (J Main References Only
 ([] Main_____ References Only
 Co Restrict to Locality of
 (2 Breakdown C_] Buildup (Variations
 [3 Exact Name Only
 C3 Exact Spelling
 [[) Check for Alphabetical Loyalty Form

SUBJECT.
Address

Localities
Birthdate & Place.

  J  /-  Searcher
  Date Z/  Initial =
  FILE NUMBER  SERIAL
 cuineen 40.”
Lo Sf
  ¢ -~BP

G2 701030 -
 G2-F327H¢ ~3Y4 0

 CHANGED TO
Ger
  O03 A
  i
  April  27,  1954

  Miss Linda
  Bor 63
  ilton,  Kentueky

  re  8 S35  IY  HY

  Thank  you  very  much for  your letter  of
  ril  1954.

  Although  I would like to be of assistance,
  it is not  possible  for me to express an opinion
  regarding  the  subject  you  mentioned  since  it  does
  not  relate  to  a  matter within  the  juriediction  of  the
  FEIe

  You  may  desire,  however,  to  connunicate
  with  The  Honorable,  The  Secretary  of  the  Air  Force,
  The  Pentagon,  Washington  25,  De  Cay  for  whatever
  tnforzetion  he  can give  yotte

  Sincerely  yours,

  John  Edgar  Hoover
  Director

  NOTE:  First  name  salutation  ts  being  used  since  the
  correspondent  indicates  she  is  a  seventh  grade  student.
  She  requested  the  Director's  opinion  regarding  Flying  Saucers.

Tolson  —_
Ladd —

  Je G3AIBOSE
Nichols
Belmont
Clegg  —__
Glavi
Harbo
Rosen
Tracy
Geary

  COMM — FEI|
Mohe
Finterrowd
  —
Tele

  APR 2 8 1954|
Holl

  MAILED'31
  April-21-1954
  Milton,  Ky.

Federal  Bureau
of Investegation
  Washington
  De.  Co

Dear  Sir,

  The  seventh  grade  of Milton

Are  studying  about  Flying  Saucers.

and  I  would  like  to  have  your

opinion  on  them,

  Sincerely  Yours,

  /8/  Linda  Butler
  Milton,  Ky.

  Address  on  envelope
  Bor 63
  Milton,  Kye
  : Office Memorandum * UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT
  TO  + Director, FBI  DATE  6-8-5)

  FROM JY Sac, Cincinnati (100-0)

  Giries DISCS
  SUBJECT: -TRUMAN BETHURUM;

  INFORMATION CONCERNING
  pen” ee
  On 6-7-5, Mre zs /ICKHOFF, 3721 Tappan Avenue, Cincinnati 23,
  {  Ohio, and Mr, RALP!  IN, 2768 Highland Avenue, Cincinnati 12, Ohio,
  called at this  office.  Mr. EICKHOFF advised  he is the operator of a beauty
  salon in the Neave Building, Cincinnati, and Mr. ZIMMERMANN advised he is
  President of the Zimmermann Packing Company in Cincinnati.  Mr. EICKHOFF
  did all the talking for the two men and he furnished the following informa~
  tion:

  On 6-3-5) an ad appeared in the "Cincinnati Enquirer," a newspaper of
  general circulation, Cincinnati, Ohio, to the effect that on 6-11-ch |
  program would be presented at Taft Auditorium,  Cincinnati,  Ohio,  on "The
  Real Flying Saucer Story."  The advertisement which Mr. EICKHOFF exhibited
  disclosed no sponsor for this program and it was only noted on the ad
  that tickets for the program sold for $2.00 per person and would be on sale
  at the Central Ticket Office in Cincinnati.

  Mr. EICKHOFF advised that although he belongs to no organization
  interested in flying saucers, he has been interested in this subject and
  has been interested to the extent that he desired to know the sponsorship
  of the program.  He  stated that he found out from the Central Ticket Office
  that the ad had been placed by HENRY MADAY, 36 West Lewiston Avenue,  )
  Ferndale 20, Michigan.  He advised that he telephoniedally contacted MADAY
  on 6-3-5, and MADAY stated that he was only the  ‘or renting the
  hall and that he was acting on behalf of TR  ‘THURUM and GEORGE
  HUNT WILLIAMSON.  He statedethat on 6-5) MADAY’called him back and told
  him that there had been a disagreement between MADAY, BETHURUM and
  WILLIAMSON over MADAY's arrangements for the sale of tickets for the
  program and the  renting of the  hall.

  EICKHOFF advised that at this time MADAY said nothing to discredit
  either BETHURUM or WILLIAMSON and indicated that their disagreement only
  concerned his placing the ad in the newspaper prior to =e the tickets
  for the program available in Cincinnati.  a  ne
  z  29)  54
  RCD:CVM  C12) i
  CC: Lo
  Teianep‘lesele (RM)
  CH)  a  e
  coRDED - 96 Y2+
  INDEXED
  a /
  Hi
  -
  oR
  86
  REGISTERED MAIL  20  JIN 11 1954
  AIR MATL SPECIAL DELIVERY  4 y/
  ——  r ep ew
COPIES DESTROYED  1X9 il
270 Nov 19 1964
  &
  6

 Letter to Director
 June 8, 195)

  Mr. EICKHOFF continued that ten minutes after he had abe to
 MADAY ie  icra,  he received a call from GEORGE  LAMSON
 and a  SPEAKER, who confirmed to him that MADAY was no longer
  associated with them, and who asked that EICKHOFF meet with them at a
‘luncheon at the Terrace Plaza Hotel on 6-7-5).

  Mr. EICKHOFF, in explanation of his  interest in this matter, ad-
 vised  that he had  read such books as  "Flying Saucers From Outer Space,"
 written by DONALD E. KEHOE,  retired major, U. S.  Marine Corps, which book
 was published by Harper's Publishers,  and a book entitled  "Flying
 Saucers Have Landed," by GEORGE ADAMSKI, which book is published by
 Werner~Lowery Company  in England,  and  is  distributed by the  British
 Book Center in New York City.  He said that he has also heard broadcasts
 by persons he considers  reputable news commentators,  such as WALTER
 WINCHELL,  FULTON LEWIS,  JR.,  and FRANK EDWARDS,  to  the effect  that
 reliable persons  have reported observing flying discs or  saucers.  He
 said contrary to these reports, the U. S. Air Force has denied the ex-
 istence of the flying saucer and he felt that persons such as TRUMAN
 BETHURUM and GEORGE HUNT WILLIAMSON,  in presenting a program such as that
 contemplated, were either truthful or they were frauds.  He stated that
 if they had a true story to tell,  then he felt it was of such nature
 that it should be given as wide a distribution as possible,  so that the
 people might learn the true facts regarding flying discs.  He said,
 however, if their story was not true, then the holding of such a
 meeting as was contemplated would be a fraud on the general public.
 He estimated that such a meeting in Cincinnati might draw two thousand
 people, which, at $2.00 apiece, would result in a $,000.00 take for
 the promoters.

  To identify TRUMAN BETHURUM, Mr. EICKHOFF had with him two copies
 of the magazine  "Valor," which he stated he got from BETHURUM,  this
 magagine being self-identified as the "Golden Times Weekly," published
 by Soul Craft Chapels, Post Office Box 192, Noblesville, Indiana.  The
 two issues which Mr. EICKHOFF had with him were numbers 15 and 16 of
 volume 6 of the publication, the number 15 being dated 2-6-5), and
 number 16 being dated 2-13-5, The number 15 issue contained an article
 concerning TRUMAN BETHURUM,  in which he is identified as a truck driver
 from Redondo Beach,  California,  and it refers to an article dated
 12-31-53, which appeared in the “Daily Breeze," a newspaper at Redondo
 Beach,  California, which allegedly contained a description of an encounter
Letter to Director
June 8, 195)

which TRUMAN BETHURUM had with a crew of assumed space explorers under
the supervision of a ravishing woman commandant in the Nevada desert.
The article also reflects that TRUMAN BETHURUM allegedly was aboard
flying saucers on eleven occasions. At the bottom of the first page
of issue number 15 there appeared in what Mr. EICKHOFF stated was the
handwriting  of TRUMAN BETHURUM the statement "This  is a true  story, a
factual experience -- TRUMAN BETHURUM."

  The above mentioned article in "ValorTM also reflected that TRUMAN
BETHURUM is 55 years of age and that his residence address is 519 North
Gertruda Avenue, Redondo Beach, California.

  Mr, EICKHOFF also had with him a letter addressed to TRUMAN BETHURUM
from WILLIAM GILROY of the Saucers Research Foundation, which letter reflected that that organization was holding a three-day convention June },
5 and 6, 1954 at the Carthay Circle Theatre in Los Angeles, California,
and that it had invited TRUMAN BETHURUM to this convention to say a few
words concerning his experience.  GILROY was identified in this letter as
business manager of Criswell Predicts Your World of Tomorrow, 1922 North
Highland, Hollywood 28, California.

  Mr. EICKHOFF reiterated that he felt BETHURUM's story, if true,
should be given wide publicity, but that if the story was false, then he
should be prosecuted for fraud.  He stated that he first took his information to the Air Force in thé person.of Lieutenant Colonel JOHN
fac  S ba  Air Force Base, Ohio, whom EICKHDFF visited
personally
  at O'MARATs home in Fairborn, Ohio, on Sunday, 6-6-5].
EICKHOFF indicated that he asked Colonel O'MARA if there were such things
as flying saucers and if BETHURUM's story could be true,  and he said
O'MARA denied that there was such a thing as a flying saucer and indicated
to him that DONALD E. KEHOE, the author of "Flying Saucers in Outer
Space" was a fraud and that information is available in Washington that
KEHOE is a fraud.  He said he was advised,  however, by Colonel O'MARA
that the Air Force could take no action with respect to BETHURUM or WILL-
TAMSON.

  EICKHOFF continued that it was his intention to aid in the
promotion of a meeting for BETHURUM in Cincinnati.  He advised that the
original meeting scheduled for June 11 had been cancelled, and that he
felt this meeting had such important information for the people as a whole
that he was going to make every effort to make the meeting one of national
Letter to Director;
June 8, 1954

significance.  “He said he intended to invite to the meeting all nationally
prominent news commentators.  He intended to try to get radio time to ad=
vertise the meeting but he did not wish to participate in this matter in
any way if  it would violate  security regulations  in any manner, or  if
BETHURUM and his  associates were in any way fraudulent.  He stated that he
so informed BETHURUM, WILLIAMSON and Mr. MANSPEAKER at the luncheon meeting
which was held at the Terrace Plaza Hotel on 6-7-5.  They informed him
that they were not afraid of an investigation;  that BETHURUM's story was
factual, and that they had no objection to EICKHOFF's advising Government
authorities regarding it.

  Mr. EICKHOFF stated that his report to this office was part of his
plan to inform all the Federal agencies he thought should know about the
activities of  BETHURUM.  He advised that in line with his contemplated A é
plans that on  ening of 6-7-5 there was to be another meeting at the
home of L.  TRINGFIELD,  7017 Britton Avenue,  Cincinnati 27, Ohio,  at
which meeting there would be Mr. STE Yale WILLIAMSON, MANSPEAKER,
BETHURUM, RALPH ZIMMERMANN and Mr.EICKHOFF.  He  said at this meeting
they would plan a method of operation and make arrangements for this
meeting of national significance.  He said he intended to set the date of
the meeting far enough in advance so that if any Governmental agency
determined that there was fraud involved that agency would have sufficient
time to act prior to the holding of the meeting.  He advised he intended
to keep a detailed record of all actions taken by this group, and that he
would voluntarily furnish such information to the FBI.

  EICKHOFF advised that he had not known and had not met either
BETHURUM, WILLIAMSON or MANSPEAKER prior to the events described above.
He said that GEORGE HUNT WILLIAMSON identified himself as an archeologist
and a writer for the magazine "Valor," who resides in Noblesville,  Indiana.

  He said that MANSPEAKER, whose first name he did not know, is also
connected with "Valor"  magazine in some way.

  He was asked as to what interest "Valor" magazine has in BETHURUM,
and whether BETHURUM was sponsored by any other organization.  He advised
that he did not know the interest of "Valor"  magazine in BETHURUM, and
so far as he knew, BETHURUM was acting on his own and had no organizational
affiliations or sponsorship.  He was asked as to what disposition would be
made of receipts from a large meeting and he advised that he did not know
what disposition would be made of the money.  He said he understood that
Letter to Director;
June 8, 195)

BETHURUM had been on tour for some time and that the meeting scheduled
for Cincinnati originally on 6-11-5) was to be the beginning of a new
series of meetings.

  The files of this office contain no information which can be
identified with THOMAS EICKHOFF, TRUMAN BETHURUM, GEORGE HUNT WILLIAMSON,
J. H.  STRINGFIELD, and Lt.  Col.  JOHN O'MARA.

  The indices reflect that by letter dated 2~7-52, Indianapolis
file 61-5, the Indianapolis Office advised the Cincinnati Office under the
caption of "Silver Shirt Legion of America, Inc.;  Internal Security - X,"
that the Silver Shirt Legion of America, Inc., whose leader is WILLIAM
DUDLEY PELLEY, was at that time operating under the name ofSoul Craft
Press, with headquarters and printing facilities in Noblesville, Indiana.

  With regard to RALPH ZIMMERMANN, the indices of this office reflect
that as of July, 192, he was general manager of the Zimmermann Packing
Company, a mechanical packing firm at 139-11 West Fourth St., Cincinnati.

  No further action is being taken in this matter by this office,
and the foregoing is for the Bureau's information and for the information
of the Los Angeles and Indianapolis Offices.
  SAC,  Cincinnati  June 22,  1954

RECORDED - 3 Director, FBI (62-83894) FY &
  TRUMAN BETHURUM;
  »,  FLYING DISCS
  NAZ¢ MISCELLANEOUS - INFORMATION CONCERNING
  Be :  (ESPIONAGE )

  Reurlet 6/8/54.

  You are instructed to recontact Thomas Eickhoff, referred to
  in your referenced letter and advise him this Bureau has no
  jurisdiction concerning  the  investigation  of matters relating
  to flying dises and that the United States Air Force has such
  jurisdiction.  You are instructed to advise him this Bureau cannot
  approve  or disapprove  of his activities
  in connection with this
  matter and  that the  placing
  of this Bursau on notice as to his
  activities will not exonerate him in the event he engages in any
  fraudulent or criminal activities.

  You are instructed to furnish the  information set forth
  in your referenced letter to OSI locally and to the Bureau in a
  memorandum  suitable  for dissemination to OSI headquarters,

  NOTE:  Thomas Eickhoff,
  Cincinnati, Ohio, advised the Cincinnati
  office he is interested in flying discs and has recently met several
  persons who claimed to have had experiences with flying discs.  He
  stated he  intended to  assist such  persons in arranging for  public
  meeting in Cincinnati, at which matters relating to flying discs
  will be discussed and that he expects the meeting will result
  in a "four thousand dollar take."  He advised he believed the
  experiences alleged by the persons referred to above and that those
  persons would participate in the meeting.  He  stated he had been
  advised  by the  Air  Force  that  it was it's opinion  claims  made  by
  the persons referred to above concerning flying discs and their
  experiences with same were  fraudulent,  He  stated he wanted to
  put all  federal agencies  on notice  in  order that  they could act  to
  prevent the  planned mecting re  flying discs  if it was deemed necessary
  by the  Government.

Tolson.  EHM:egp
 Boardman.
 Nichols.
 Belmont.
 Glavin

 rae
 Rosen_
  JUN 221954
 Tamm.
 Tracy  MAILED 27
 Mohr.
 Winterrowd.
 Tele. Root
 Holloman
 Miss Gandy.
  DIRECTOR, FBI

  SAC, SEATTLE

  REPORTS ON ALLEGED SIGHTING OF SUBMARINES,
  7
  PARACHUTE LANDINGS, FLASHING LIGHTS, ETC.
g  ESPIONAGE
  é  ten  Ae tI ers
  It has been the experience of this office that during this season,
  trom now until winter, there is received a considerable number of alleged
  reports on sighting of submarines, flashing lights, parachute landings,
  flying saucers, etc. in every instance when such reports are received,
  the information is immediately disseminated to DIO, 13 ND, U. S. Navy;
  OSI, USAF; and R-3, U. S. Army.

  Inasmuch as Seattle is the District Headquarters for the Intelligence
  Agencies in the Pacific Northwest, reports received, usually from the USCG,
  concerning incidents in the state of Oregon are immediately reported to
  that office as well as the Intelligence Agencies.

  Many of the reports are of a nebulous type, impossible of corroborating, V
  and of doubtful authenticity. Some, by preliminary inquiry and evaluation,  NG
  prove to be without foundation.  However, as stated above, reports of this
  type are immediately disseminated to the Intelligence Agencies without
  evaluation, followed by additional information as obtained.

  This office has no control of the dissemination of these reports
  on a "spot" basis by the local intelligence offices to their Headquarters
  in Washington, D. C.  The Bureau will recall the widespread dissemination
  given by the military agencies of "Radio Message March 13, 1953, Interpreted
  3 va for Mobilization of Commnist Party" (SAC Letter #23, dated
  3/31/53)

  The purpose of this letter is to advise the Bureau that in all
  instances immediate dissemination is made of all unusual incidents that
  appear to have any military significance. This office also acts as a co-
  ordinator on all reports to be certain that all interested agencies are
  cognizant.

  The Bureau may be assured that it will be kept advised of all
  significant incidents as they arise but will not be bothered with every
  trivial incident that occurs unless instructed.

  LAD:hz  that  SRR  A
  ee: Portland  ‘WOT  RHCORDAD
  Encls.  ]  87 JUL  9  1954

  3 JUL 19 1958"  INITIALS ON ORTGINAE
DIRECTOR, FBI  SAC,  SEATTLE
RE:  REPORTS ON ALLEGED SIGHTING OF SUBMARINES,  6-16-54
  PARACHUTE LANDINGS, FLASHING LIGHTS,  ETC.
  ESPIONAGE

  OSI advises us that they have no interest whatsoever
themselves in connection with these matters and  that Operations
of the Air Force doesn't even advise them.  Colonel S. W. RAYNOR,
District Commander, OSI, states that there is an evaluation at
Wright-Patterson Field where the data is correlated, that the
reports are handled from the Air Force here to that point in a
routine fashion and that OSI gives no credence whatsoever to it
because they have never had any previous experience of any kind
as to anything arising out of the situation.

  There is attached hereto a copy of a  communication
marked "CONFIDENTIAL" requesting data concerning the situation
as well as several recent publications, some of which are issued
py the Air Force itself. It is the opinion of Colonel RAYNOR
that the releases are a poor thing and create mass hysteria, but
he says he has nothing whatsoever to do with the situation.
  infornatio
  your  inquiries.

  ineerely

  VOTE;  Correspondent  desired’  inférmatiwn  concerning
  book  "Flying  Saucers  Have  Landed"  by Desmond Leslie
  George  Adamski.
Tolson.
Ned OC gs  Gomi
RECORDED-88

INDE XED-88

  EX-112
  wa. Jones

  ayo wrens
WR &

  v
