  UNITED  STATES DEPARTMENT OF  JUSTICE

  FEDERAL BUREAU OF  INVESTIGATION

In Reply, Please Refer to  Albuquerque,  New  Mexico
File No.  May  8,  1964

  UNIDENTIFIED FLYING  OBJECT
  SOCORRO,  NEW  MEXICO
  APRIL 24,  1964

  Special Agent D. Arthur Byrnes, Jr., Federal
  Bureau  of  Investigation, stationed at Albuquerque, New
  Mexico, was at Socorro, New Mexico, and at the State
  Police Office there on business late afternoon of
  April 24, 1964.

  At  approximately  5:45  to  5:50  P.  M.,  Nep  Lopez,
  radio  operator  in  the  Socorro County  Sheriff's  Office,
  located  about  thirty  feet  down  the  hall  from  the  State
  Police  Office,  came  into  the  State  Police  Office.

  Mr.  Lopez  advised  M.  S.  Chavez,  New  Mexico  State
  Police,  that  he  had  just  received  a radio  call  from  Officer
  Lonnie Zamora to come  to an area about one mile southwest
  of Socorro.  The call  was in relation to some unknown
  object  which  "landed  and  has  taken  off."  Agent  Byrnes
  finished  his work in  the  State  Police  Office  at  Socorro
  at  approximately  6:00  P.  M.,  April  24,  1964,  and  there-
  after  proceeded  to  the  site where  Officer  Zamora,
  Socorro  County  Undersheriff  Jim  Luckie,  Sergeant  M.  S.
  Chavez,  and Officer  Ted Jordan,  New  Mexico State  Police,
  were  assembled.

  It  may  be  noted  that  it  has  been  the  observation
  of  Agent  Byrnes  that  Officer  Zamora,  known  intimately  for
  approximately  five  years,  is  well  regarded  as  a  sober,
  industrious,  and  conscientious  officer  and  not  given
  to fantasy.

  Officer  Zamora was  noted  to be  perfectly  sober
  and  somewhat  agitated  over  his  experience.

  Special Agent  Byrnes  noted  four  indentations
  in  the  rough  ground  at  the  "site"  of  the  object  described

  ‘Wie document contains
  neith er  recommendatio
  ns
  @er conclusions of any
  Lind,  tt is  the  property
  of the FBI, and is a loan
  to your agency:
  its contents are not
  to be distrib uted  outside your
  agency,
UNIDENTIFIED FLYING OBJECT

by Officer Zamora, These depressions appeared regular
in shape, approximately sixteen by six inches rectangular.
Each depression seemed to have been made by an object
going into the earth at an angle from a center line. Each
depression was approximately two inches deep and pushed
some earth to the far side.

  Inside the four depressions were three burned
patches of clumps of grass. Other clumps of grass in the
same area appeared not to be disturbed. One burned area
was outside  the four depressions.

  There were three circular marks in the earth
which were smooth, approximately four inches in diameter
and penetrated in the sandy earth approximately one-eighth
of an inch as if a jar lid had gently been pushed into
the  sand.

  No other person was noted in the area the night
of April 24, 1964.  No other objects were noted in the
area possibly connected with the incident related by
Officer Zamora.

  So far as could be noted, there were no houses
or inhabited dwellings in the area or in sight of the area.
  i  .:

  UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

  FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

  Albuquerque,  New  Mexico
In Reply, Please Refer to  May  8,  1964
File No.

  UNIDENTIFIED FLYING OBJECT
  SOCORRO, NEW MEXICO
  APRIL 24, 1964

  Special Agent D. Arthur Byrnes,  Jr., Federal
  Bureau of Investigation, stationed at Albuquerque, New
  Mexico, was at Socorro, New Mexico, and at the State
  Police Office there on business late afternoon of
  April 24,  1964.

  At approximately 5:45 to 5:50 P, M., Nep Lopez,
  radio operator in the Socorro County Sheriff's Office,
  located about thirty feet down the hall from the State
  Police Office, came into the State Police Office.

  Mr. Lopez advised  M.  S.  Chavez,  New  Mexico State
  Police,  that he had just received @ radio call from Officer
  Lonnie Zamora to come to an area about one mile southwest
  of Socorro.  The call was in relation to some unknown
  object which  “landed and has  taken off."  Agent Byrnes
  finished his work in the State Police Office at Socorro
  at approximately 6:00 P. M., April 24, 1964, and there=
  after proceeded. to the site where Officer Zamora,
  Socorro County Undersheriff Jim luckie, Sergeant M. 8.
  Chavez, and Officer Ted Jordan, New Mexico State Police,
  were assembled.

  It may  be noted  that  it  has  been the  observation
  of Agent Byrnes that Officer Zamora, known intimately for
  approximately five years, is well regarded as a sober,
  industrious, and conscientious officer and not given
  to fantasy.

  Officer Zamora was noted to be perfectly sober
  and somewhat agitated over his experience.

  Special Agent Byrnes noted four indentations
  in the rough ground at  the  “site” of  the object described

  This document contains neither recom
  mendations
  ner conclusions of any kind.  it is the property
  of the FB, and is a loan to your agenc
  y; it and/er
  ite contents are not to be distri
  buted outside your
  agency,
UNIDENTIFIED FLYING OBJECT
  r
by Officer Zamora. These depressions appeared regulagular.
in shape, approximately sixteen by six inches rectan
Bach depression seemed to have been made by an object
going into the earth at an angie from a cente r line. Bach
depression was approximately two inches deep and pushed
some earth to the far side.
  Inside the four depressions were three burned
patches of clumps of grass. Other clumps of grass in the
same area appeared not to be disturbed. One burned area
was outside the four depressions.

  There were three circular marks in the earth
which were smooth, approximately four inches in diameter
and penetrated in the sandy earth approximately one-eighth
of an inch as if a jar lid had gently been pushed into
the sand.

  No other person was noted in the area the night
of April 24,  1964. No other objects were noted in the
area possib ly  connected with the incident related by
officer Zamora.

  So far as could be noted, there were no houses
or inhabited dwellings in the area or in sight of the area.
  UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

  FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

  Albuquerque, New Moxico
In Reply, Please Refer to
File No.  May &, 1964

  UNIDENTIFIED FLYING OBJECT
  SOCORRO,  NSW MEXICO
  APRIL 24, 1964

  Special Agent D. Artix Byrnes, Jr., Federal
  Bureau of Investigation, stationed at Albuquerque, New
  Mexico, was at Socorro, New Mexico, and at the State
  Police Office there on business late afternoon of
  April 24,  1964.

  At approximately 5:45 to 5:50 P. M., Nep Lopez,
  radio operator in the Socorro County Sheriff's Office,
  lecated about thirty fect down the hall from the State
  Police Office, came into the State Police Office.

  Mr. Lopez advised @. &. Chavez, New Moxi¢o State
  Police, that he had just received a radio call from Officer
  lennie Zamora to cous to an area about one mile southwest
  of Socorro.  The call was in relation to some ulmowm
  object which “landed and has taken off.“ Agont Byrnes
  finished his work in the State Police Office at Socorro
  at approximately 6:00 P. M., 4pril 24, 1964, and there-
  after proceeded to the site where Officer Zamora,
  Socorro County Undersheriff Jim luckie, Sergeant M. 5.
  Chavez, and Officer Ted Jordan, Now Mexico State Police,
  were assoubled.

  It may be noted that it has been the observation
  of Agont Byrnes that Officer Zamora, known intimately for
  approximately five years, if well regarded as a sober,
  industrious, and conscientious officer and not given
  to fantasy.

  Officer Zamora was noted to be perfectly sober
  and somewhat agitated over his experience.

  Special Agent Byrnes noted fow indentations
  in the rough ground at the "site” of the object described

  This document Contains neither
  recommendaticns
  Ree conclusions of any
  kind.  tt is th
  of the Fat , and is a loan to
  your.esac  ice
  its contents are not
  to be di istrtbuted eutside
  your
  egency.
UNIDENTIFIED FLYING OBJECT

by  -  depressions appeared regular
in shape, approximately sixteen by six inches rectangular.
Bach depression seemed to have been made by an object
going into the earth at an angie from a center line. ach
depression was approximately two inches deep and pushed
some earth to the far side.

  Inside
  the four depressions
  were three burned
patches of clumps of grass. Other clumps of grass in the
same area sppeared not to be disturbed. One burned area
was outside the four depressions.

  There were three circular marks in the earth
which were smooth, approximate
and penetrated
  in the sandy earth
of an inch as if a jar lid
the sand.

  No other person was noted in the area the night
of April 24, 1964. No other objects were noted in the
area possibly connected with the incident related by
Officer Zamora.

  fo far as could be noted, there were no houses
or inhabited dwellings in the aren or in sight of the area.
  UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

  FEDERAL  BUREAU OF  INVESTIGATION

  Albuquerque,  New  Mexico
In Reply, Please Refer to
  May  8,  1964
File No.

  UNIDENTIFIED FLYING  OBJECT
  SOCORRO, NEW MEXICO
  APRIL 24,  1964

  The  following data were  obtained  from Officer

  Lonnie  Zamora,  Police  Department,  Socorro,  New  Mexico,

  the  night  of April 24,  1964,  and early  morning,  April 25,

  1964,  as  related by Officer  Zamora.

  Lonnie  Zamora,  606  Reservoir  Street,  Socorro,

  New  Mexico,  835-1134,  Officer Socorro  Police Department

  about  five  years,  office  phone  835-0941,  now  on  2:00  P.  M.

  to  10:00  P.  M.  shift.

  About  5:45  P.  M.,  April 24,  1964,  while  in

  Socorro 2  Police Car  (1964 Pontiac white)  started to chase

  a car  due  south  from west  side  of  Courthouse.  Car  was

  apparently  speeding,  and was  about  three  blocks  in  front.

  At  point  on  Old  Rodeo  Street,  (extension  of  Park Street

  south),  near George  Morillo residence  (about  one-half  mile

  south  of  Spring Street).  The  chased  car was  going  straight

  ahead  toward rodeo  grounds.  Car  chased  was  a new  black

  Chevrolet,  (it might  have been Floyd Reynolds'  boy,  Vivian,

  about  17).  Chased car still  about  three  blocks  ahead.

  This document contains
  neither recommendations
  mor conclusions of any
  kind.  it is the preper
  ty
  of the FBI, an  sa loan to your age
  ncy; it and/or
  je  not  to  be distributed out
  side  your
UNIDENTIFIED FLYING OBJECT

Lonnie  alone.

  At this time heard a roar and saw a flame in the

sky to the southwest some distance away--possibly a half

mile or a mile.  Came to mind that a dynamite shack in that

area had blown up.  Decided to abandon the chase,  and to

check on the flame.  The flame was bluish and sort of orange

too.  Could not tell size of flame.  Sort of motionless

flame, slowly descending.  Was still driving the police car

and could not pay too much attention to the flame.  It was

a narrow type of flame.  It was  like a "stream down"-- a

funnel type--narrower at top than at bottom.  Flame possibly

three degrees or so in width--not wide.  The flame was

possibly a mile south of Socorro,  in isolated area.

  The flame about twice as wide at bottom as top,

and about four times as high as top was wide.  Did not

notice any object at top,  did not note if top of flame was

level.  Sun was to west and did not help vision.  Had green

sun glasses over prescription glasses. / |  Could not

see bottom of flame because it was behind the hill.

  No smoke noted.  Noted some "commotion" at bottom--

dust?  Possibly from windy day--wind was blowing hard.  Clear

sunny sky otherwise--just a few clouds scattered over area.
UNIDENTIFIED FLYING OBJECT

  Noise was a roar, not a blast.  Not  like a jet.

Changed from high frequency to low frequency and then

stopped.  Roar lasted possibly ten seconds--was going towards

it at that time on the rough gravel road.  Saw flame about

as long as heard the sound.  Flame same color as best as

recall.  Sound distinctly from high to low until it disappeared.

Both car windows were down.  No other spectators noted--no

traffic except the car in front--and car in front might have
heard it but possibly did not see it because car in front

was too close to hill in front,  to see the flame.

  After the roar and flame,  did not note anything,

while going up the somewhat steep rough hill toward the

flame site.  Got up about half way first time, wheels started

skidding, roar still going on, had to back down and try twice

again before made the hill.  Hill about sixty feet long, fairly

steep and with loose gravel and rock.  While beginning third

time,  noise  and flame  not  noted.

  After got to top,  traveled slowly on the gravel

road westwardly.  Noted nothing for awhile,  for possibly

ten or fifteen seconds, went slow,  looking around for the

dynamite shack--did not recall exactly where the dynamite

shack was.
UNIDENTIFIED FLYING OBJECT

  Suddenly  noted a shiny  type  object  to south

about  150 to 200 yards.  It was off  the road.  At first

glance,  stopped.  It  looked,  at  first,  like  a car turned

upside  down.  Thought  some  kids might  have  turned  over.

Saw two people  in white coveralls  very  close  to  the  object.

One of  these persons  seemed to turn and  look straight at

my car and seemed startled--seemed to quickly jump somewhat.

  When I first saw the object,  (when I thought  it

might be  a car),  I saw what appeared to be  two  legs of

some type  from the object to the ground.  At the time,  I

didn't pay much attention to what  it was--I thought  it was

an accident--I saw the two persons.  I didn't pay attention

to the two "legs?".  The two "legs" were at the bottom

of the object,  slanted outwards to the ground.  The object

might have been about thee and a half feet from the ground

at that  time.  I  just glanced  at  it.

  At  this  time  I  started moving my car towards them

quickly, with idea to help.  Had stopped about only  a

couple seConds.  Object was  like  aluminum--it was whitish

against the mesa background, but not chrome.  Seemed  like
  a
  /  )  in shape and I at first glance took it to be an
  mt
overturned white car.  Car  appeared turned up like standing
UNIDENTIFIED FLYING OBJECT

on radiator or on trunk,  at this first glance.

  The only time I saw these two persons was when I

had stopped, for possibly two seconds or so, to glance at
the object.  I don't recall noting any particular shape

or possibly any hats or headgear.  These persons appeared

normal in shape--but possibly they were small adults or

large  kids.

  Then paid attention to road while drove towards scene.

Radioed to sheriff's office,  "Socorro 2 to Socorro, possible

10-44 (accident);  I'11 be 10-6 (busy) out of the car checking

the  car down in the arroyo."

  Stopped car, was Still talking on radio, started

to get out, mike fe11 down, reached back to put up mike,

then replaced radio mike in slot, got out of car and turned

to go down to where knew the object  (car) was.

  As my mike fell,  I got out  of car, at  scene  area,

I heard about two or three loud "thumps," like someone

possibly hammering or shutting a door or doors hard,  These

"thumps" were possibly a second or  less apart.  This was

just before the roar.  The  persons were not  seen When  I got

up  to the  scene  area.
UNIDENTIFIED FLYING OBJECT

  Hardly turned around from car when heard roar,

(was not exactly a blast), very loud roar--at that close

was real loud.  Not like a jet--knows what jets sound like.

Started low frequency quickly, then roar rose in frequency

(higher tone) and in loudness--from loud to very loud.  At

same time as roar saw flame.  Flame was under the object.

Object was starting to go straight up--slowly up.  Object

slowly rose straight up.  Flame was light blue and at bottom

was sort of orange color.  From this angle, saw what might

be the side of object  (not end, as first noted).  Difficult

to describe flame.  Thought,  from roar, it might blow up.

Flame might have come from underside of object, at middle,

possibly a four feet area--very rough guess.  Can not

describe flame further except blue and orange.  No smoke,

except dust  in  immediate  area.

  As soon as saw flame  and heard roar, turned away,

ran away from object but did turn head several times towards

object.  Bumped  leg on car--back fender area.  Car facing

southwest.  Glasses fell to ground,  left them there.  Ran

to north--car between  him  and  object.

  Object was  & >  in shape.  It was smooth--no

windows or doors.  As roar started,  it was still on_or near

ground.  Noted red lettering of some type, like (Al  °
UNIDENTIFIED FLYING OBJECT

Insignia was about two and one-half feet high and about
two feet wide, guess.  Was in middle of object, like

  -  Object still like aluminum-white.

  After fell by car and glasses fell off, kept

running to north with car between me and object.  Glanced

back couple of times.  Noted object to rise to about level

of car, about twenty to twenty-five feet, guess--took I

guess about six seconds when object started to rise and I
glanced back.  I ran I guess about half way to where I

ducked down--about fifty feet from the car is where I ducked
down, just over edge of hill.  I guess I had run about

twenty-five feet when I glanced back and saw the object about
level with the car and it appeared about directly over the

place where  it  rose  from.

  I was still running and I jumped just over the

hill--I stopped because  I did not hear the roar.  I was

scared of the roar, and I had planned to continue running

down the hill.  I turned around toward the object and at

same time put my head towards ground, covering my face with

my arms.  Being that there was no roar, I looked up,  and I

saw the object going away from me, in a southwest direction.

When the roar stopped, heard a sharp tone whine from high

tone to low tone.  At end of roar was this whine and the
UNIDENTIFIED FLYING OBJECT

whine lasted maybe a second.  Then there was complete

silence about the object.  That's when I lifted up my head
and saw the object going away from me.  It did not come

any closer to me.  It appeared to go in a straight line

and at same height--possibly ten to fifteen feet from ground,
and it cleared the dynamite shack by about three feet. Shack
about eight feet high.  Object was traveling very fast.  It

seemed to rise up and take off immediately across country.
I ran back to my car and as I ran back, I kept an eye on the
object.  I picked up my glasses, (I left the sunglasses on
the ground), got into the car, and radioed to Nep Lopez,
radio operator, to "look out the window, to see if you could
see.an object." He asked, "What is it?" I answered, "It
looks like a balloon."  I don't know if he saw it.  If Nep

looked out his window, which faces north, he couldn't have
seen it.  I did not tell him at the moment which window to
look  out  of.

  As I was calling Nep,  I could still see the object.

The object seemed to lift up slowly, and to "get small" in
the distance very fast.  It seemed to just clear the Box

Canyon or Six Mile Canyon Mountain.  It disappeared as it
UNIDENTIFIED FLYING OBJECT

went over the mountain.  It had no flame whatsoever as it

was traveling over the ground, and no smoke or noise.

  Can't tell how long saw object second time (the

"close" time), possibly twenty seconds--just a guess--from

time got out of car, glanced at object, ran from object,

jumped over edge of hill, then got back to car:and radioed
as object disappeared.

  Just before Sergeant Chavez got to scene,  I got

my pen and drew a picture of the insignia on the object.

  Feeling in good health.  Last drink--two or three

beers--was over a month ago.  Noted no odors.  Noted no

sounds other than described.  Gave directions to Nep Lopez

at radio and to Sergeant M. S. Chavez to get there.  Went

down to where the object had been and I noted the brush was

burning in several places.  At that time,  I heard Sergeant

Chaves,  (New Mexico State Police at Socorro), calling me

on radio for my location, and I returned to my car, told

him he was "looking at me."  Then Sergeant Chavez came up,

asked me what the trouble was, because I was sweating and

he told me I was white, very pale.  I asked the Sergeant

to see what I saw, and that was the burning brush.  Then

  —9=
UNIDENTIFIED  FLYING  OBJECT

Sergeant  Chavez  and  I went  to  the  spot,  and  Sergeant

Chavez  pointed  out  the  tracks.
  UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

  FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

  Albuquerque,  New Mexico
In Reply, Please Refer to  May  8,  1964
File No.

  UNIDENTIFIED FLYING GBJECT
  SOCORRO, NEW MEXICO
  APRIL 24,  1964

  The following data were obtained from Officer

  Lonnie Zamora,  Police Department, Socorro,  New Moxico,

  the night of April 24,  1964, and early morning, April 25,

  1964,  as related by Officer Zamora.

  Lennie Zamora, 606 Reservoir Street, Socorro,

  New Mexico, S35~-1134,  Officer Socorro Police Department

  about five years,  office phone 335-0941,  now on 2:00 P. M.

  to  16:00  P. M.  shift.

  About  5:45  P, M.,  April 24,  1964, while  in

  Secerre 2 Police Car  (1964 Pontiac white) started to chase

  a car due south from west side  of Courthouse.  Car was

  apparently speeding,  and was  about  three blocks  in front.

  At point on Old Rodeo Street,  (extension of  Park Street

  south), mear George Morillo residence  (about one-half mile

  south of Spring Street).  The chased car was going straight

  ahead toward rodeo grounds.  Car chased was a now black

  Chevrolet,  (it might have been Floyd Reynolds’ boy, Vivian,

  about  17}.  Chased car still about three blocks ahead.

  ‘Thin document contains neither
  tecommendations
  fer conclusions of any
  kind.  it is the property
  of the FBI, and is a loan to your
  agency; it and/or
  its contents are not to
  be distributed outside you
  r
  agency.
UNIDENTIFIED FLYING GBJRCT

Lennie alone.

  At this time heard « roar and saw 2 flame in the

sky to the southwest some distance away--possibly a halt

nile
 or a mile.  Came to mind that a dynamite shack in that

area had blown
  up. Decided to abandon the chase, and to

check
  on the flame.  The filawe was biuish and sort of orange

too.  Could not tell size of flame.  Sort of motionless

flame, slowly descending.  Was still driving the police car

and could not pay too mich attention to the finme.  It was

a narrow
  type of flame.  It was like a "stream down'TM~— a

funnel type~-narrower at top than at bottom.  Filmme possibly

three degrees or seo in width—-not
  wide. The fine
  was

possibly a mile south
  of Socorro, in isolated area.

  The fieme about twice as wide at bottom az  top,

and about fow times es high as top was wide.  Did not

notice any object at top, did uot note if top of filme was

level.  Sun wae to west and did not help vision.  Had green

sun glasses over proscription glasres.  Decl  Could not
  See
  fxg
see bottom
  of fleme because it was behind the hill.

  No smoke neotod.  Noted seme "commotion" at bottom--

dust?  Possibly from windy day--wind was blowing hard.  Clear

sunny sky otherwise-—juct « few clouds scattered over area.
UNIDENTIFIED FLYING GBUECT

  Noise was a rosr,  a
  motblast.  Not  a
  likejet.

Changed from high frequency to low frequency and then

stopped.  Rosr lasted possibly ten seconds--was going towards

it at that time on the rough gravel road.  Saw 2lame about

26 long as heard the sound.  Fieme same color as best at

rechll.  Sound distinctly
  from high to low until it disappeared.

Both car windows
  were down. No other spectators noted--no

traffic except the car in front--anid car in front might have

heard it but possibly did not see it because car in front

was too close to hill in front,  to see the filme.

  After the roar and fleme, did not note anything,

while going up the somewhat aveep rocgh 2111 toward the

fleme site.  Got up about half way first tine, wheels started

skidding, roar stili going on, had to back down and try twice

again before made the hill.  Hill about sixty feet long, fairly

steep and with loose gravel ani rock.  While beginning
  third

time,  noise and flame not noted.

  After got to top, traveled slowly on the gravel

road westwardly.  Noted nothing for awhile, for possibly

ten or fifteen seconds, went slow, looking around for the

dynamite shack--did not recali exactly where the dynanite

shack was.
UNIDENTIFIQD
  FLYING CBIECT

  Suddenly  noted a shiny type object  to south

about 150 to 200 yards.  It  was off the road.  At first

glance,  stopped.  It looked,  at first,  like a car turned

upside down.  Thought some kids might have turned over.

Saw tvo people in white coveralls very close to the object.

One of these persons seemed to turn and look straight at

my cax end seened startied—-seemed
  to quickly jump somewhat.

  When I firet saw the object,  (when I thought it

might be a car),  I  saw what appeared to be two lege of

some typo from the object to the ground.  At the tine,
  I

didu't pay auch attention
  to what it was--I thought it was

an accidert-—I
  saw the two persons.  I didn’t
  pay attention

to the two "legs?".  The two “lege” were at the botton

of the object,  slanted outwards to the ground.  The object

might have been about thee and a half feet from the ground

at that time.  I just glanced
  at it.

  At this tise I started moving my car towards then

quickly,
  with idea to help.  Had stopped
  ebout only a

couple seconds.  Object  wee like aluminum--it was whitish

against the mesn background,
  but not chrome, Seeued like

  () = tm. erepe ta % ot tives ginaes took at to. be an
  M
overturned
  white car. Cax appeared turned up like standing

  le
UNIDENTIFIED FLYING GBgeCT

  or on
on radi atortrunk, at this firet glance.

  The only tise I saw these two persons was when I

had stepped, for possibly two seconds or so, to glance st

the ohject.  lar
  I don't recall noting any particushape

or possibly any hate or headgear. These persons appeared
  or
  in shape—but possibly they were small adults
normal

large kids.

  Then paid attention to road while drove towards scone.

Radioed to sheriff's office, “Socorro 2 to Socorro, possible

10-44 (accident); I'll be 10-6 (busy) out of the car checking

the car down in the arroyo.”

  Stopped car, wae Still talking on radio, started

to get out, mike fe11 down, reached back to put up mike,

then replaced radio mike in slot,  got out of car and turned

to go down to where knew the object (car) was.

  45 my mike feli,  I got out of car, at scene area,

I heard about two or three loud “thuaps," like someone

possibly hammering or shutting a door or doorsiacd.  These

“thumps” were possibly a second or less apart.  This was

just before
  the roar. The persons were not seen when I got

up te the scene area.
UNIDENTIFIED FLYING CBJECT

  Hardly turned around from car when heard roar,

(was not exactly = blast), very loud roar-—at that close

was real lowd.  Not like a jet--kmows what jets sound like.

Started low frequency quickly, then roar rose in frequency

Qhigher tone) and in loudness~—-from
  loud to very loud.  At

sane time as roar saw flame.  Flame was under the object.

Object was starting to go straight up--silowly up.  Object

slowly rose straight up.  Flene was light biue and at bottom

was sort. of orange color,  From this angle, saw what might

be the side of object  (not end,  as first noted).  Difficult

to describe flame.  Thought,  from roar, it might blow up.

Flene might have come from underside of object, at widdle,

possibly a four feet area--very rough guess.  Can not

describe fiame further except blue and orange.  No smoke,

except dust in imuediate area.

  4s soon a6 saw flame and heard rosr, turned avay,

ran away from object but did turn head several times towards

object.  Bumped leg on car--back fender area.  Car facing

southwest.  Glasses fell to ground,  left them there.  Ran

te north--car between him and object.

  Object was  C  >  Aa shape.  It was sudoth-~no

windows or doors.  As roar started,  it was still on or near

ground. Woted red lettering
  of some type, like LA) .
UNIDENTIFIED FLYING OBJECT

Insignia was about two and one-half Zeet high and about
two feet wide, guess.  Was in middle of object, like

  SA)  .  Object still like aluminu-white.
  After fell by car and glasses fell off, kept

running to north with car between me and object.  Glanced

back couple of times.  Noted object to rise to about level
  I
of cas’, shout twenty to twenty~five feet, guess-—-took

guess about six secunds when object started to rise and I
glanced back.  I ran I guess about half way to where I

ducked down-—~about fizty feet from the car is where I ducked
down, just over edge of hill.  I guess I had run shout

twenty-five
  feet when I glanced back and saw the object about

level with the car and it appeared about directly over the

place where it rose fran.

  i was still ruming and If jumped just over the

hill~-I stopped because I did not hear the roar.  I was

scared of the roar, and I had planned to continue running

down
  the hill.  I turned around toward the object and at.

seme time put my head towards ground, covering my face with
my amas.  Being that there was no roar, I looked up, and I

saw the object going away irom me, in 2a southwest direction.

When the reer stopped,  heard a sharp tone whine from high

tone
 to low tone,  At end of roar was this whine and the
UNIDEN TIVIZD
  FLYING OBJECT

whine insted maybe a second.  Then there was complete

silence about
  the object.  That's when I lifted up my head

ami saw the object going away from me.  It did not come

any cloner
  to me.  It appeared to go in a straight line

and at same height--possibly
  ten to fifteen feet from ground,

and it cleared the dynamite shack by about three feet.  Shack

about eight feet high.  Object was traveling
  very fast.  It

seowed to ripe up and take off immediately across country.

I van back to my car and ae I ran back,  I kept an oye on the

object.  If picked
  up my glasses,  (I left the sunglasses
  on

the ground), got into the car, and radiced to Nep Lopez,

radio operator, to “look out the window, to see if you could

seevgn object."  Ne asked, “What
  is it?”  I answered, “It

looks iike @ balloon."  don"t imow if he paw it.  If Nep

looked out his window, which faces north,  be couldn't have

seen it.  I did not tell him at the moment which window to

look out of.

  4s I was calling Nep,  1 could still see the object.

The Ghject  seemed to lift up slowly,
  and to “get smatl”
  in

the distance
  very fast.  It seemed to just  clear the Box

Canyen or Six Mile Canyon Mountain.  It disappeared
  am it

  8
  OBJECT
  TIFIED
  FLYING
UNIDEN

went over the mountain.  it
  ver
  it had no flame whatsoeas

was traveling over the ground, and no smoke or noise.

  Cam*’t tell how  saw
  long  object second time (the

“close” time), possibly twenty seconds-—just a guess-——from

time got out of car, glanced at object, ran from object,

jumped over edge of hill, then got back to car and radiced

as object disappeared.

  dust before Sergeant Chavez got to scene, I got

my pon and drew a picture of the insignia on the object.

  Feeling
  in good health.  Last drink-~two
  or three

  over a month
beers—  -was  ago.  mo
  Notedodors.  no
  Noted

sounds other than described.  Gave directions
  to Nep Lopez

at radio and to Sergeant M. &. Chavez to get there.  Went

down to where the object had been and I noted the brush was

burning
  in Several places.  At that time, I hoard Sergeant

Chaves,
  (New Mexico State Police at Socorre), calling
  mo

on radio Zor my location, and I returned to my car, told

hin he was “looking
  at me." . Then Sergeant
  Chavez came up,

asked me what the trouble was, because I was sweating and

he told mé I wan white, very pale.  I asked
  the Sergeant

to see what I saw, and that was the burning brush.  Then

  Se
  LED FLYING OBJECT
UNIDENTIF

Sergeant Chavez and I went to the spot, and Sergeant
Chaves. pointed out the tracks.
  UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

  FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

  Albuquerque,  New Mexico
In Reply, Please Refer to  May  8,  1964
File No.

  UNIDENTIFIED FLYING OBJECT
  SOCORRO, NEW MEXICO
  APRIL 24, 1964

  The following data were obtained from Officer

  Lonnie Zamora, Police Department, Socorro, New Mexico,

  the night of April 24, 1964, and early morning, April 25,

  1964, as related by Officer Zamora.

  Lonnie Zamora, 606 Reservoir Street, Socorro,

  New Mexico, 335-1134, Officer Socorro Police Department

  about five years, office phone 835-0941, now on 2:00 P, M.

  to 10:00 P. M. shift.

  About 5:45 P. M., April 24,  1964, while in

  Socorro 2 Police Car (1964 Pontiac white) started to chase

  a car due south from west side of Courthouse.  Car was

  apparently speeding, and was about three blocks in front.

  At point on Old Rodeo Street,  (extension of Park Street

  south), near George Morillo residence  (about one-half mile

  south of Spring Street).  The chased car was going straight

  ahead toward rodeo grounds.  Car chased was a new black

  Chevrolet, (it might have been Floyd Reynolds’ boy, Vivian,

  about 17).  Chased car still about three biocks ahead.

  This document contains neither recommendations
  nor conclusions of any kind.le it is the pro perty
  of the FB, and is a loan to your agency: it and/or
  its contents are not to be distributed outside
  your
  agency.
UNIDENTIFIED FLYING GBJECT

Lonnie slone.

  At this tiue heard a roar and saw a flame in the

sky to the southwest some distance away--possibly a half

 or
milea mile.  Came to mind that a dynamite shack in that

aren had blown
  up. Decided to abandon the chase, and to

check
  on the flame.  The flame was bluish and sort of orange

too.  Could not tell size of flame.  Sort. of motionless

flame, Slowly descending.  Was #ti11 driving the police car

and could not pay too much attention to the flame.  It was

@ narrow type of flame.  It was like a "stream down'"-— a

funnel type--narrower at top than at bottom.  Filane possibly

three degrees or so in width--not wide.  The flame was

possibly a mile south of Socorro, in isolated area.

  The flame about twice as wide at bottom as top,

and about four times as high as top was wide.  Did not

notice any object at top, did not mote if top of flame was

level.  Sun was to west and did not help vision.  Had green

sun glasses over prescription glasses.  |  Could not

  /|
  as

see bottom of flame because it was behind the hiii.

  No smoke noted.  Noted some “commotion” at botton—~

dust?  Possibly from windy day--wind was blowing hard.  Clear

sunny sky otherwise-~just a fow clouds scattered over area.
UNIDENTIFIED FLYING CBIECT

  se
  was @
  Noi  roar, not a blast.  Not  a
  likejet.

Changed fran high frequency to low frequency and then
stopped. Roar lasted possibly ten seconds--was going towards
it at that tine on the rough gravel road.  Saw flame about

as long as heard the sound.  Flame same color as best ==

recall.  Sound distinctly from high to low until it disappeared.
  s No other spectators noted--no
  were down.
Both car window

traffic except the car in front--end car in front might have

heard it but possibly did not see it because car in front

was too Close to hill in front, to see the filane.

  After the roar and flase, did not note anything,

while going up the somewhat steep rough hill toward tho

flame site.  Got up about half way first time, wheels started

skidding,
  vroax still going on, had to back down and try twice

again before wade the hill,  Hill about sixty feet long, fairly

steep and with loose gravel and rock.  While beginning third

time, moise and flame not noted.

  After got to top,  traveled slowly on the gravel

road Westwardly.  Noted nothing for awhile, for possibly

ten o  fifteen seconds, went slow, looking around for the

dynamite shack--did not recall exactly where the dynamite

sheck was.
UNIDENTIFIED FLYING OBJECT

  Suddenly noted a shiny type object to south

about 150 to 200 yards.  It was off the road.  At first

glance, stopped.  It looked, at first, like a car turned

upside dow.  ‘Thought some kids might have turned over.

Saw two people in white coveralls very close to the object.

One of these persons seemed to turn and look straight at
  seem
  to quickly
my car and seemed startled—  ed
  jump somewhat.

  When I first saw the object, (when I thought it

  be
mighta car), I saw what appeared to be two lege of

some type fram the object to the ground.  At the time, I

didn't pay much attention to what it was--I thought it was
an accident-~-I say the two persons.  I didn’t pay attention

+o the two "legs?”.  ‘The two "legs" were at the bottom

of the object, slanted outwards to the ground.  The object

might have been about tile and = half feet from the ground
at that tims.  I just glanced at it.

  At this time I started moving my car towards then

quickly, with idea’to help.  Had stopped about only a

couple seconds.  Object was like alwainum—it was whitish

against the mesa background, but not chrome.  Seemed like

  {)  im shape and I at first glance took it to be an
  et
overturned white car.  Car appeared turned up like standing
UNIDENTIFIED FLYING OBJECT

on radister or on trunk, at this first glance.

  The only time I saw these two persons was when I
  at
had stepped, for possibly two seconds or so, to glance

the object.  I don't recall noting any particular shape

or possibly any hate or headgear.  These persons appeared

normal in shape~-but possibly they were eunll adults or
lerge kids.

  Then paid attention to read while drove towards scene.

Radiced to sheriff's office, “Socorro 2 to Socorro, possible

10-44 (accident); I*11 be 10-6 QGumpy) out of the car checking

the car down in the arroyo.”

  Stopped car, was Still talking on radio, started

to get out, mike fell down, reached back to put up mike,

then replaced
  radio mike in slot, got out of car and turned

to go down to where knew the object (car) was.

  46 my mike fell,  I got out of car, at scene aren,

I heard about two or three loud "thumps," like someone

possibly hammering or eslutting a door or doorstarnd.  These

“thumps” were possibly a second or less apart.  This was

just before
  the roar. The persons were not seen when I got

up to the scene area.
UNIDLNTWIED FLYING ObIECT

  Hardly turned eround from car when heard roar,

(was not exactly a blast), vexy loud roar-—at that close
was wenl loud.  Not like a jot-—-kmows what jets sound like.

Started low frequency quickly, then roar rose in frequency

(higher tone) and in loudnesloud to
  s-—fromvery leud.  At

same time as roar saw flame.  Fiame was under the object.

Object was starting to go straight up-—siowly up.  Object

slowly
  rose straight up.  Flame was light blue and at bottom

was sort of orange color.  From this angle, saw what might

be the side of object (uot end, as first noted).  Difficult

to describe flame.  Thought,
  trom roar, it might blow up.

Filawe might have come from underside
  of object, at middle,

possibly  & four feet area-~very rough guess.  Can not

describe fleme further except blue and orange.  No suoke,

except dust in inmediate
  aren.

  4s soon an saw flame and heard roar, turned away,

ran away from object but did turn head several times towards

object.  Bumped
  leg on car--back fender area.  Car facing

southwest.  Glasses fell
  to ground,  left them there.  Ran

to north--car between
  him and object.

  Object was fi BE in shape.  It wae suooth——no

windows
  or doors.  As roar started,  it wae still on or near

ground. Sobed wea doktering at tone type, like (A) ) .
  —6G=-
UNIDENTIFIED FLYING OBJECT

Insignia was about two and one-half feet high and sbout
two feet wide, guess. Wae in middle of object, like
  ae}  .  Object still like elumimm-white.
  After fell by car and glasses fell off, kept

runmiting to north with car between me and object.  Glanced

back couple of times.  Noted object to rise to about level

of car, about twenty to twenty~five feet, guess-—took 1

guess about six seconds when object started to rise and I
glanced back.  I ran I guess about half way te where i

ducked down-~-nbout fifty feet from the car is where I ducked
down, just over edge of hill.  I guess I had run about

twenty-five feet when I glanced back and saw the object about

level with the car and it appeared about directly over the
place where it rose from.

  I wae still ruuming and I jumped just over the

hill-~I stopped because I did not hear the roar.  I was

seared of the roar, and I had plaamed to continue running

down the hill.  %& turned around toward the object and at

game time put wy head towards ground, covering my face with

my arms.  Being that there
  was no roar, I looked
  up, andI

saw the object going away from me, in a southwest direction.

When the roar stopped, heard a sharp tone whine from high

tone to low tone.  At end of roar was this whine and the
  TOD FLYING OBgECcT
UNIDENTIF

whine lasted
  maybe a second.  Then there was complete

Silence about the object.  That's when I lifted up my head

and saw the object going away from me.  It did not come

any closer
  to me.  It appeared
  to go in a straight line

and at same hoight--possibly ten to fifteen feet from ground,

and it cleared the dynamite shack by about three feet.  Shack

about eight feet high.  Object was traveling very fast.  It

seened to rise up and take off immediately across country.

I ran back to my car and as I ran back,  I kept an eye on the

object.  I picked up my glasses,  (I left the sunglasses on

the ground), got into the car, and radiced to Nep Lopez,

radio operator, to “look out the window, to see if you could

see an Object.”  He asked,  “What is it?"  I answered,  "It

looks like a balloon."  I don’t know if he saw it.  If Nep

looked out his window, which faces north, he couldn't have

seen it.  I did not tell him at the moment which window to

look out of.

  4s  1 was calling Nep,  2 could still see the object.

The Ohject seemed to  lift up slowly, and to “get small" in

the distance very fast.  It seemed to just clear the Box

Canyon or Six Mile Canyon Mountain.  It disappeared as it
UNIDENTIFIQD FLYING OBJECT

went over the mountain.  It had no flame whatsoever as it

was traveling over the ground,  and no smoke or noise.

  Can't tell how long saw object second time (the

“close” time), possibly twenty seconds-~—just a guess--from

time got out of car, glanced at object, ran from object,

jumped over edge of hill, then got back to car and radiced

as Object disappeared.

  dust before Sergeant Chavez got to scene,  I got

my pen and drew a picture of the insignia on the object.

  Foeling in good health.  last drink--two or three

beers--was over a month ago.  Noted mo odors.  Noted no

sounds other than described.  Gave directions to Nep Lopes

at radio and to Sergeant M.  &.  Chavez to get there.  Went

down to where the object  had been and I noted the brush was

burning in several places.  At that time,  I heard Sergeant

Chaves,  (New Mexico State Police at Bocorro), calling mo

on radio for my  location,  and  I returned to my car, told

him he was  “looking at me."  Then Sergeant Chavez came up,

asked we what the trouble was,  because  I was sweating and

he told me I was white,  very  pale.  I asked the Sergeant

to see what  { sew, and that was the burning brush.  Thon

  -9-
UNIDENTIPI2D FLYING CBJECT

Sergeant Chavez and  I went to the spot, and Sergeant

Chavez. pointed out  the tracks.
