G2-HQ.333%  ni  SeRtad  yyq- ONLY

  |Ilil i llI
  DIRECTOR, FBI

  SAC, LOS ANGELES (100-242-h0/)

  FLYING SAUCERS INTERNATIONAL,
  OFFICIAL JOURNAL OF THE
  AMALGAMATED FLYING SAUCER
  CLUBS OF AMERICA,  INC.
  IS = MISCELLANEOUS

  The Philadelphia Division by letter dated 9/22/66,
 furnished the Los Angeles Division with Issue No. 2h dated
 July, 1966, entitled "FLYING SAUCERS INTERNATIONAL", which is
 the official journal of the Amalgamated Flying Saucer Clubs
 of America, Inc.  The Philadelphia Division received the
 magazine from Mr. JARVIS H. COOPER, IRS, 401 North Broad Street,
 Philadelphia, Pennsylvania on 9/19/66, Mr. COOPER stated he
 subseribed to the magazine because his son had exhibited an
 interest in fljring saucers and outer space.  He said that on
 pages 2 and 3 of Issue  No, 24 was an article which he believed
 expounded the Commmist Party (CP) line.
  For the information of the Bureau, the International
 Headquarters of the Amalgamated Flying Saucer Clubs of America,
 Inc. is located at 200} North Hoover Street, Los Angeles,
 California.  The article,  on pages 2 and 3, were allegedly
 written by Master KALEN-LI RETAN, Head of the plarft KORENDOR,
 which was received on 5/4/66 by special directional short-wave
 radio by BOB RENAUD,

  The indices of the Los Angeles Division contain no
 informtion identifiable with RENAUD, and no investigation has
 ever been conducted on captioned organization.

  No further action is contemplated in this matter
 by the Los Angeles Office, UACB.

  The foregoing is furnished to the Bureau for
 information,

“2's Bureau (RM) (Ovc-/ )
 i = Los oe te
 a
  /  4 4 q
  SPECIAL  AFSCA  THIRD  NATIONAL  FLYING  SAUCER  CONVENTION  ISSUE

ISSUENO. 24  JULY , 1966  50c
  SPECIAL  AFSCA  CONVENTION  MESSAGE

BRIGHT WORLD IN HANDS OF SAUCER MOVEMENT  humanity.
  Make no mistake.  Your government is not in the
  (Editor's Note:  This special message was  White House or the Congress.  IT IS IN THE PENTAreceived from Master Kalen-Li Retan (head of the  GON,  AND IN THE HEADQUARTERS OF THE VAST
planet Korendor, about 400 light years distant) on  "DEFENSE"-ORIENTED INDUSTRIES.  It is THEY,
May 4,  1966 via special directional short-wave radio  not the President or the Congressmen,  who run the
by Bob Renaud,  the young electronic-technician whose  United States.  The facade government is merely to
remarkable story we printed in issues #18, 19, 20,21,  allay undue alarm or suspicion of the people.
and 22, and which will be continued in our next issue.  Examine another aspect of the Asian war, the
  Since Bob's initial radio contact in 1961, he has  ECONOMIC side.  Do you recall that,  in the stock
talked with the crew of a spacecraft as he watched  reports just recently, the Dow-Jones average
them on his special TV screen in his home — and  dropped sharply BECAUSE OF A RUMOR THAT
eventually met his contacts in-person;  visited their  NORTH VIETNAM HAD MADE A PEACE BID?  Does
undersea and underground bases on our planet;  was  the staggering implication of this news evade you?
taken aboard many of their spaceships;  and was  Stock prices suffering a heavy loss because of a
actually allowed to pilot two of their small scout  rumor that peace might come to pass!
craft — one on a  short solo flight.)  ~—~“This thought is most distressing.  Your economy
  relies so heavily upon war and destruction,  that if it
  "Kalo (Hello),  friends.  We will get directly to  were to stop, THE UNITED STATES ECONOMY
the point of our message to you.  Frankly,  we are  WOULD SUFFER A MASSIVE DEPRESSION!  Your
appalled at the state of Earth at present.  Despite our  money system would collapse
  like a house of cards.
constant warnings and even our actual intervention in  Millions would be unemployed, sick, hungry and
some instances,  the condition upon your planet grows  homeless,  Tremendous industrial complexes would
steadily worse.  close their doors.
  One subject on everyone's lips these days is  The utterly appalling fact is this: WARIS .
Vietnam.  From a  little civil war, it has grown  PROFITABLE. Highly so!  Every major conflict has
steadily and inexorably into a full scale conflict  been accompanied by a strong peak in your monetary
between the world's three major powers: the United  prosperity.  Peace has usually been economically
States,  the Soviet Union,  and Communist China.  painful!  .
  Many influential people have used the approach  After World War 1, the nation coasted for a while
of patriotism and love of God and Country to twist  upon the fat put on during the boom of the war years.
decent human feelings into dangerous channels of  In 1929, the bottom fell out.  After the Korean War,
thought and action.  With their charges of treason and  in the 1950's came another recession. What comes
sympathy with the enemy,  they have aroused a good  after Vietnam? No one knows, and no one wants to
portion of the populace to a state of fear, distrust,  find out.  The war in Vietnam is bringing an unheardand hatred of those who seek peace and love.  Unfor-  of degree of affluence in the United States. Why kill
tunately, because some unconventional individuals  a good thing by ending the war? The philosopy, in
have been associated with the peace movement, that  essence, is this:  It is economically expedient to send
entire operation has been seriously hindered.  military forces to Vietnam and elsewhere in Asia in
  Your government is a military puppet,  a mere  order to wage war, because in doing so, the United
parrot of the monstrosity that is the Military-Indus-  States' economy is bolstered and maintained at a high
trial complex.  Your senators,  except for a few, are  level of prosperity; human life is secondary to the
robots,  speaking what they are told to say.  preservation of economic well-being!
  Your President is,  unfortunately,  a pawn of  It is thus evident that, unless a drastic change is
their needs and demands.  We have contacted him  made in the structure of your economy, war will
several times concerning the state of affairs,  and he  never end because the Military-Industrial complex
has said that he could do nothing to change them, for  WON'T LET IT!
if he were to speak out against the Asian conflict, he  Many of you fear Communism.  Where did that
would be removed.  This is what happened to the late  fear come from, I ask you?  From within yourself?
Mr. Kennedy who,  in his great humanitarianism,  was  NO!  It was brainwashed into you by the Militaryreluctant to sacrifice his ideals and his visions for  Industrial complex.  Who controls all your news
the sake of the Military Industrial octopus.  He paid  media?  The government and the advertisers.  Who,
the supreme penalty for his efforts in behalf of  then, is in a position to dictate what shall be printed?

  FLYING SAUCERS INTERNATIONAL
 ISSUE NO. 24  Official Journal  of the  JULY, 1966

  Amalgamated Flying Saucer Clubs of America, Inc.
  International Headquarters: 2004 N. Hoover St., Los Angeles,, Calif. 90027,U.S.A.
  Dedicated to
GABRIEL GREEN, Editor
HELEN GREEN, Asst. Ed.  The Physical, Spiritual, and Economic Emancipation of Man  A Non-profit  Organization

FLYING SAUCERS INTERNATIONAL (6 issues-$3.00.  notice will be enclosed in the last issue for which you
Membership-$1.00) is published quarterly. Copyright  have paid.  New subscriptions will start with the last
© 1965 by Amalgamated Flying Saucer Clubs of  issue published,  unless a specific starting issue num-
America.  All rights reserved.  The information  ber is requested.  When writing to AFSCA for a reply,
presented in ''Flying Saucers International" does not  enclose a stamped self-addressed envelope.  Not
necessarily represent  the views of AFSCA.  The num-  responsible for magazines lost in the mail due to subber after your name on the address label indicates the  scribers' failure to inform us of their current addressissue with which your subscription expires. Subscrip-  es. Prices subject tochange. Payment must accompation renewals will start where the previous one ended,  ny order. Send cash, check or money order to: AFSCA;
and will be acknowledged only by the new number after  2004 North Hoover St.; Los Angeles, California 90027.
your name on future issues.  A "Time to Renew"  Phone:  662-4404.  2
  FLYING  SAUCER  NEWS  IN __  BRIEF

  NEW BOOKS NOW AVAILABLE FROM AFSCA:
 Price includes 15¢ mailing charge. California  Saucers.  Brochures are l¢ each (this just about pays
residents also add 47 sales tax.)  the postage to mail them to you).  Saucer post cards
1.  COUNCIL OF SEVEN LIGHTS by George Van  are 50 for $1.00.
Tassel, now reprinted — $3.65.  WHEN WRITING AFSCA,  if you wish a personal
2. THE ADVENT OF THE COSMIC VIEWPOINT by  reply to a specific inquiry, please enclose a stamped,
Bryant Reeve — $6.15.  self-addressed envelope.  No replies can otherwise
3.  FLYING SAUCERS THROUGH THE AGES by Paul  be sent.  General information may be obtained via
Thomas — $4.15.  our brochures and magazines. We are sorry that we
4,  OTHER TONGUES,  OTHER FLESH by George  cannot have a lengthy correspondence with all the
Hunt Williamson, now reprinted — $6.10.  hundreds of persons who would like us to do so,  but
5. SECRET OF THE ANDES by Brother Philip- $4.  unfortunately we have neither the time nor the staff
6. FLYING SAUCERS AND THE THREE MEN by  for it — and our mail has been greatly increased in
Albert K, Bender — $4.15.  the last few months.
7.  FLYING SAUCERS - SERIOUS BUSINESS by  SAUCER NEWS CLIPPINGS:  Your response has
Frank Edwards — $6.10.  been wonderful!  We've received so many clippings
8.  INCIDENT AT EXETER by John G,  Fuller -$6. 10.  from you helpful people that we simply hadn't enough
9.  THE HOLLOW EARTH by Dr. Raymond Bernard,  space to print all your individual names and cities.
now available again in soft cover for $3.15.  So we say a big and sincere THANKS to all of you.
  PAST CONVENTIONS & SAUCER ACTIVITIES:  And please do keep 'em coming!  (One reminder:
FEBRUARY 5,6,  1966:  Dr. Frank &. Stranges’ 4th  please DON'T write on or near the clippings.)
Annual UFO Space and Science Convention was held at  WEDDING BELLS rang on Saturday, June 4, 1966
the Blarney Castle Inn Annex in Los Angeles.  for contactee Elary J. Willsie and Sophia Martinez
JUNE 4,5,6,  1966:  Dr. Daniel W.  Fry's Man in  Olivares of Mexico City.  The ceremony took place
Space Symposium took place at Dunsmuir, near Mt.  at Los Angeles, California.  Among those present
Shasta in Northern California.  were Sophia's parents and her younger sister, all of
JUNE 25, 26,27,  1966:  Buck Nelson's 10th Annual  Mexico City;  Mrs.  Maud Willsie,  mother of the
Spacecraft Convention was held at Buck's Mountain  groom;  and your editor, who was also official photog-
View Ranch; Route 1,  Box 236; Mountain View,  Mo.  rapher for the occasion. Mr. and Mrs. Willsie will
  BACK ISSUES of UFO INTERNATIONAL are now  live in Los Angeles.  Congratulations and best wishes,
selling 11 issues for $3.00,  while they last (issue  Elary and Sophia!
#11 is now out of print). There is much timeless and  MEL NOEL, former Air Force Lieutenant and
valuable information available in these magazines.  fighter pilot, is fast becoming very well known for his
  OUT OF PRINT:  1.  FLYING SAUCERS: TOP  lectures on his amazing experiences with Flying
SECRET by Major Donald E, Keyhoe is now out of  Saucers while on active duty in the service.  He has
print,  although it is listed in our new brochure.  been speaking to capacity crowds wherever he goes.
(Some saucer books have occassionally gone out of  On Thursday, June 23, 1966, the personable Mr.
print without notice.)  Noel spoke to a standing-room only crowd at the
2.  BACK ISSUES #6 and 11 are now out of print.  We  Aeronautical Sciences Building on Beverly Blvd. in
still have only a few copies left of #9 which we have  West Los Angeles.  We hear that he is booked to
priced at $1.00 each in an effort to preserve them for  speak at 57 colleges across the nation! Recently he
serious researchers and collectors.  Please do not  appeared on the Louis Lomax TV Show, and has been
order these items,  or any other materials which we  heard on many radio shows.  He leaves shortly for
do not advertise.  Mexico City, where he has been invited by an official
  PRICE CHANGE:  The price has gone up on two  government group to speak. He has been promised
of the better known books in the saucer field,  which  some interesting experiences by a local contactee
we must now order from England: 1. THE SKY  there, and we look forward to hearing his report on
PEOPLE by Brinsley le Poer Trench, was $4.65.  his return! Good work, Mel, and good luck!
It is now $5.10, postpaid.  2.  ROAD IN THE SKY by  SID PADRICK, contactee from Watsonville,
George Hunt Williamson, was $4.15.  It is now $5.10,  Calif., who spent two hours aboard a space craft,
postpaid.  California residents please add 47 tax.  was recently in Los Angeles when he was guest
  "UFOI" ISSUE #23 CORRECTIONS:  Page 4,  line  speaker at the regular monthly meeting of the Ingle-
3:  the date should be April 24, 1964, instead of  wood Unit of Understanding on Saturday, June 25,
1965.  On page 4, line 1 of the 7th paragraph, insert  1966.  Meetings are held on the 4th Saturday of every
"later, via telepathy" after ''They told him ---."  month at the Inglewood Business and Professional
  SEATTLE,  WASHINGTON area residents please  Woman's Club; 820 Java St., Inglewood, at 8:00 P.M.
note:  AFSCA Unit #25 meets every 4th  Friday at the  Donation is $1.00.  Information:  Mrs. Roberta T.
Seattle Public Library,  Room 325 at 7:30 P.M.,  Forrester, Program Chairman; P.O. Box 146;
under the capable direction of Mr. Leverett G.  Inglewood, Calif. 90306. Phone: 677-5214. Also,
Tallman.  The meeting is free,  and all who are  Mr. and Mrs.  Lee Yates.  Phone: 293-4743.
interested in the Flying Saucer subject are invited to  NEW AFSCA UNITS:
come to listen and to participate in the discussion.  45.  AFSCA Unit #45; Everett,  Washington;
  ZIP CODES ARE IMPORTANT:  If the address  Ray and Jean Sebring,  Co-Directors;
label on this magazine does not have your zip code  1032 S.W.  126th St.; Seattle,  Wash.  98146.
number on it,  please notify us as to what your num-  46.  AFSCA Unit #46;  Ben Blazs,  Director;
ber is.  If you don't know your number, call your  3057 Electric; Lincoln Park, Mich.  48146.
local Post Office and then let us know.  Thanks!  Several other new AFSCA Units have been formed
  AFSCA BROCHURES AND SAUCER-PHOTO  and will be listed in the next issue (#25). Persons
POST CARDS,  sent to friends and acquaintances,  are  interested in forming AFSCA Units in their cities
a good way to help spread the word about Flying  should contact AFSCA Headquarters for information.

  15
  AFSCA's
  (Amalgamated Flying Saucer Clubs of America)

  3rd National

  FLYING SAUCER
MOVIES
  REGISTER
SLIDES
  -9  A.M.  -
EXHIBITS
  At The Beautiful, New
  $2.00 per day
BOOKS
BRITERATURE  CENTENNIAL  COLISEUM (4590 S. Virginia St.)

  Reno, Nevada - July &8,9,10, 1966
  Program: 10 A.M. to 11 P.M.

SPEAKERS ARE:  Wayne S. Aho,  Carl A. Anderson,  Orfeo Angelucci,  Michael ''X" Barton,
Wesley Bateman,  Marianne Francis, Dr. Daniel W. Fry, Calvin C. Girvin, Gabriel Green,
Dr. George King,  Hanno Mayberry,  Howard Menger, Laura Mundo,  Mel Noel,  Sidney Padrick,
Chief Standing Horse,  Dr. Frank E,  Stranges,  Mollie Thompson,  Hope Troxell, George W.
Van Tassel,  Hal Wilcox.

  greatest assembly of contactee-speakers since our Los Angeles convention in  1959
  at the Statler-Hilton.
SEE:  Startling new photographic evidence —the biggest collection of Flying Saucer photos
  on display in the history of the saucer movement.  Actual color movies and new still
  photos of Flying Saucers.
MEET:  IN PERSON, PEOPLE WHO HAVE HAD ACTUAL CONTACTS WITH SPACESHIPS
  AND THEIR CREWS FROM OTHER WORLDS.
LEARN: About this important subject which is so vital to the welfare and survival of humanity
  in our times.
ATTEND:  AFSCA's 3rd National Convention.  You'll be glad you did!  Fill out the Advance
  Registration form below.  Do it Now!

  For Motel & Hotel room information,  write to:  The Greater Reno Chamber of Commerce
  P.O. Box 2109;  Reno,  Nevada
  RN  RRS  SE  PETS ES SIE  SEEM  ESET ot

  AFSCA 3rd NATIONAL CONVENTION ADVANCE REGISTRATION FORM

To:  AFSCA Headquarters;  2004 N. Hoover St., Los Angeles,  Calif.  90027.  Phone: 662-4404,

  Yes, count me in!  I don't want to miss joining with you at this important convention
and helping to support this vital movement.  Here is my $  -  Please send me
Advance Reservation tickets ($5.00 for the 3 days, or $2.00 per day).  IMPORTANT:  Iam
also enclosing a stamped,  self-addressed envelope for the return of my tickets.  ADVANCE
REGISTRATIONS must be received at AFSCA Headquarters no later than JUNE 30th!!!

Name  Street

City
The Military-Industrial complex,  by opinion-control  We are able to increase our height while on
through the use of psycho-politics (brainwashing by  Earth through a  technical process related to teleporcontrolled news management).  tation.  It is concerned with recording the atomic and
  Consider this:  In order to survive,  a commer-  molecular structures of our bodies,  and then reprocial medium,  such as a newspaper or magazine,  ducing them identically on a larger scale.  Differrequires a vast amount of advertising revenue.  The  ences in our internal structure are adjusted by the
mere subscription fees will not cover the costs.  computer which controls the reproducer.
Thus,  they depend for their continued existence upon  Our most common skin color is a little darker
money paid by advertisers.  Suppose,  then,  that the  than yours,  although we have skin colors which vary
editor of a certain newspaper decides that he is  as yours do all over the Earth.  Usually,  however,
opposed to the Vietnam policy,  and says so in his  we would look "tan" to you.  We are NOT green,  blue,
paper.  The advertisers simply say to the editor,  or heliotrope,  as has been suggested!
"Either you toe the mark and print what we want, or  Concerning our language,  we generally use one
we'll withdraw our advertising."  of two tongues and we are fairly familiar with a third.
  Such pressures are a fact of life.  The newsmen  On Korendor itself we speak the native language,
are torn between their higher devotion to Truth,  and  Korendian.  It is similar in many ways to your own
also to the lower level of their physical needs.  languages since it,  like yours,  was originally derived
Rather than jeopardize their security and their  from Galingua,  one of the two universal tongues.
futures they, of course,  submit meekly to power.  The other is Solex Mal,  which is more familiar to
Their actions are fully understandable,  and we do not  you,  since it is used by your local Solar System
hold them responsible.  planets.  It is seldom heard now in our sector of
  We throw the blame directly  on the Military-  space,  as Galingua has replaced it almost completely.
Industrial complex which, by  its underhanded dealing,  Unlike your own,  however, the Korendianthreats of force, and economic pressure and retali-  Galinguan speech is very rhythmic,  and has few
ation,  has crushed the spirit of American journalism  sibilant sounds, such as "s" or "z"'. Some of the
and turned it from a dynamic motivating force in  sharper sounds like "c'' and "k"' are minimized.  It is
American life into a weak-willed,  subservient  a beautiful language which is very musical and
mouthpiece for the power-masters.  We blame them  pleasant to hear.
for the death of journalistic freedom and individuality!  Perhaps you would be surprised to learn that
  ‘One more comment on this topic:  May I say that  ancient Latin was liberally taken from Galingua.
a better economic system is already known to the  There are many similarities in the two languages.
leaders of the Flying Saucer Movement.  It is the  Even modern English has roots on other worlds!
system known as  Universal Economics.  As we have  In concluding my message to you,  may I say  —
said over and over before,  it is the non-money  people of Earth:  open up your minds and your hearts
economic system which MUST be applied on your  to the world around you. There is so much to be
planet before you can start to resolve most of your  learned, so much to be discovered.  Don't waste
major problems and thus begin to establish a highly-  precious hours and days in bigotry and ignorance,
advanced,  non-destructive state of existance on  and in senseless fighting and killing. To do so is
Earth, such as we of more advanced planets have  truly a crime against nature and humanity.
enjoyed for so long.  INVESTIGATE THIS SYSTEM  At this stage where you have the very stars
to evaluate it for its merit — then ACT to apply it!  almost in your grasp, how irrational and barbaric it
YOUR VERY SURVIVAL AS A CIVILIZATION MAY  is to spend futile hours warring with your brothers.
DEPEND UPON IT!  As an old saying on your world puts it: ''As you make
  Perhaps this is an opportune time to clarify a  your bed, so shall you lie in it." The decision does
few questions which have been asked about us.  not seem difficult.  Here are the alternatives:  A
  Do we of Korendor work with the local planets  world living in harmony, justice, security and abunin our operations? Yes, we do cooperate with them  dance for all, or a world continuing to reap the
a great deal.  However, our work on Earth is  bloody harvests that grow from the seeds of hatred
relatively independent of the local planets. We have  and mistrust.  If left to their own devices,  the
many times overstepped what is considered to be the  majority of mankind will forge onward to a destiny of
limit of interference upheld by Venus,  Mars,  and  destruction and annihilation, oblivious to the danger
other planets. This has caused a good deal of debate  in their actions.  They are short-sighted;  they care
between them and us.  Each time we have pointed out  little for the future.
that we of Korendor are basically pragmatic in nature.  It is you New Age people,  dedicated to the wel-
Although we do respect the laws of self-destiny,  we  fare of all mankind,  and having the vision and underfeel also that where stepping in is required to prevent  standing of the ways to build the better world of
disaster, it is our right and our duty to do so.  tomorrow,  who must lead the way.  You have the
  We have interfered in such places as the United  future in YOUR hands,  if you will but shoulder your
States,  China,  Russia,  and on a large scale in  responsibilities.  The  Flying Saucer Movement, as
Vietnam.  This has caused no end of consternation in  you call it,  belongs to you.  Support it in every way
the local Tribunal of Planets.  We are sympathetic to  possible.  Help it to grow until it is influential
their viewpoint, but we do feel that their policy is  thoughout your world.  Go out into the world and
limited in its capacity to achieve the desired goals.  guide the misguided,  find the lost,  and recover the
It is our opinion that one cannot stand on the sidelines  strays.  We are behind you all the way.  As we have
and achieve any noticeable results.  said many times before,  we will take two steps for
  As I have said before, we have infiltrated your  every one that you take to help yourselves.
planet.  We are directly  involved in Earth's life.
You might say thatyou lisve Geen invaded’ —‘a strong
  The time has come for nations to "bury the
  hatchet",  to clasp hands,  and plunge into the future
way of phrasing it,  to be sure,  but nonetheless  together — in co-operation toward mutual goals.
factual,  since we walk and work amongst you daily!  Look to the
  heavens
  and  realize that your destiny
  We have been asked about our physical appear-  is not in bleak atomic desolation,  but in the magnifiance.  We are humanoid, indistinguishable from  cent greatness that you can achieve if you will but
yourselves, except that in our natural form we aver-  work for it.  Choose the right path and you will soon
age three to four feet in height. Every other dimen-  qualify to join with us in our journeys amongst the
sion is proportionately scaled, so that photographs of  stars.
us would not reveal our origin in any way.  Va i Luce (Go in Light)."  Kalen-LiRetan  3
  Amalgamated Flying Saucer Clubs of America
  CENTENNIAL COLISEUM
  THIRD NATIONAL CONVENTION
  RENO, NEVADA
  JULY 8,9,10, 1966
  SATURDAY, JULY 9,  1966  SUNDAY, JULY 10,  1966
  FRIDAY, JULY 8,  1966

TIME  MAIN  HALL  ]  GOLD  ROOM  MAIN HALL  I  GOLD  ROOM  MAIN  HALL  ds  GOLD _ ROOM

  Exhibits  books, & literature on display.  Your Reno host, Miguel Ribera, Dir., AFSCA Unit No.5.
9AM  REGISTRATION:($2.00 per day).
10AM INVOCATION:  Dr. Frank E. Stranges.  HAL WILCOX  AFSCA Unit Directors  Flying Saucer Council
  GABRIEL GREEN, "Some-  "From Earth to Alpha  Meeting. Those inter-  Meeting (for all speak-
  to  Keynote Address:
  Centauri"  Ch: Chief  ested in forming  ers only).  Ch: Gabe
 10:50 thing Big Is Happening". Introduction of
  speakers, & saucer movement personalities.  Standing Horse  AFSCA Units invited.  Green. Discussion of
  ways to improve effect+
11:00  WAYNE AHO  HANNO MAYBERRY  DR. Frank STRANGES
  iveness of Flying Sauc-
 to  "Secrecy Must Go---  "Message From  "The Hollow Earth
  er Movement.Come pre-}
11:50  People Must Know!"  Triangulum"  Mystery"
  pared with suggestions.
  Ch:Orfeo Angelucci  Ch: Laura Mundo  Ch: Orfeo Angelucci

  Space Tapes(12:15-1:)  LUNCH  Space Tapes(12:15-1:15)  LUNCH  Space Tapes(12:15-1:15)
11:50AM to 1:30PM  LUNCH
  CARL ANDERSON  MICHAEL BARTON  CARL ANDERSON
1:30  Chief Standing Horse
  "I Was Teleported Into  "UFO's and World  "Kumar, Wonder Man
 to  "My 4 Day Trip to
  A Flying Saucer"  Prophesy"  From Mars"
2:20  Mars, Venus,Clarion,
  Ch: G. Green  Ch: Frank Stranges
  & Orion'' Ch: Mel Noel  Ch: Mel Noel

2:30  HOPE TROXELL  CALVIN GIRVIN  DR, GEORGE KING  GEORGE Van TASSEL  SIDNEY PADRICK
  "Evolved Man of the  "Flying Saucer Land -  "Saucer Ride-1965"
 to  "I Was an Agent for thd "The Nine Freedoms"
3:20  Stars"  Extraterrestrials"  ing at Edwards Air
  Ch: Michael Barton  Ch: Wayne Aho  Force Base" Ch:D. Fry  Ch:  Wes Bateman
  Ch:  Wes Bateman

  MOLLIE THOMPSON (Space Age Songs)  MOLLIE THOMPSON  (Space Age Songs)  MOLLIE THOMPSON  (Space Age Songs)
3:30

  HOWARD MENGER  HANNO MAYBERRY  DR.  DANIEL W.  FRY  WESLEY BATEMAN  DR.  GEORGE KING  CALVIN GIRVIN
3:40
  "Contact With a7 Foot  "Physical Space Con-  "Moon Mysteries
 to  "Journey to the Moon"  "The White Sands  "The Frequency
4:30  Tall Spaceman"  Incident"  Barrier"  tact in Hollywood"  Revealed"
  Ch:Ch.Standing Horse  Ch: George Van Tassel  Ch: Marianne Francis  Ch: Michael Barton  Ch:  G. Green
  Chairman: Hal Wilcox
  MARIANNE FRANCIS  GABRIEL GREEN  ORFEO ANGELUCCI  WAYNE AHO  MARIANNE FRANCIS
4:40  DR.FRANK STRANGES
  "Starcraft Contact"  "Secret of the  "Flying Saucers and  "Messages From Our
 to  "A Space Beings Visit  "Abundant New World:
  to the Pentagon"  The Promise for Tom Saucers"  the Latter Days"  Space Brothers"
5:30
  Dan Fry  Ch: Hanno Mayberry  morrow"Ch:F,Stranges Ch: Hanno Mayberry  Ch: Carl Anderson  Ch:  Calvin Girvin
  Chairman:
  DINNER  Space Tapes(6:15-7:15  DINNER  Space Tapes(6:15-7:15)  DINNER  Space Tapes(6:15-7:15)
5:30 to 7:00PM

  LAURA MUNDO "A  SIDNEY PADRICK  HOPE TROXELL  HOWARD MENGER  HAL WILCOX
7:00  WESLEY BATEMAN
  Saucer Researchers  "2 Hours Aboard an  "Temples of the High  "Free Energy: Tomor-  "'Zemkla,  Interplane-
  to  "Flying Saucer
  Responsibility to Hu-  Extraterrestrial Space4 Places"  row's Revolutionary  tary Avatar"
7:50  Propulsion" (Slides)
  manity"' Ch:H.Menger  ship" Ch: H, Menger  Ch: Carl Anderson  Power" Ch: Geo. King  Ch:  Laura Mundo
  Ch: Sid Padrick
8:00  MOLLIE THOMPSON (Space Age Songs)  MOLLIE THOMPSON  (Space Age Songs)  MOLLIE THOMPSON  Space Age Songs)
  GEORGE Van TASSEL  Chief Standing Horse  DAN FRY  MEL NOEL "I Photo-
 8:10  MEL NOEL "Investi-  MICHAEL BARTON
  to  gating Flying Saucers  "Flying Saucer Slide  "Spaceship Contact at  "Christmas 1962 on  "Saucer Movies"  graphed Flying Saucers
  Giant Rock"  Jupiter"  GABE GREEN  as anAir Force Fight-
 9:00  Inside the U.S. Air  Photos"
  Ch: George King  Ch: Calvin Girvin  "Saucer Slides"  er Pilot''Ch:H, Troxell
  Force" Ch: G. Green  Chairman: Hal Wilcox
  DR.  DANIEL W. FRY  ORFEO ANGELUCCI  COLOR MOVIE:  LAURA MUNDO  Question Period: Writ- Written Questions
 9:10
  "The Curve of Devel-  "Concret Evidence"  "We Have Seen The  "Flying Saucers and  ten questions answered answered by today's
  to
  Saucers"  the Father's Plan"  by Main Hall speakers.  Gold Room speakers.
10:00  opment"
  n: Padrick
  ChairmaSid  Ch: George Van Tassel  Ch: Marianne Francis  Chairman: Gabe Green  Chairman: Mel Noel
  Ch:  Wayne Aho
10:10  Question Period. Writ-| Written questions  Question Period: Writ-  Written questions  Convention Close.
  to  ten questions answered answered by today's  ten questions answered] answered by today's
 11:00  by Main Hall speakers  Gold Room speakers.  by Main Hall speakers.  Gold Room speakers.
  Ch: Gabriel Green  Ch: Michael Barton  Chairman: Gabe Green  Ch: Frank Stranges

The appearance of the speakers on our program does  you with an opportunity to hear and to evalu-  No smoking permitted in lecture and exhibit
  halls. The Dick Miller Space Tapes played at
not constitute an endorsement by AFSCA of their in-  ate Flying Saucer Movement speakers and |
formation or viewpoints.  In the American tradition  their information. You be the judgé.  lunch and dinner hours are all different.
of freedom of information and ideas, AFSCA provides  Taped space songs by Bob Marcus.  Program subject to change without notice.
  FOR FURTHER INFORMATION, contact:  AFSCA HEADQUARTERS; 2004 N. Hoover St.; Los Angeles, California  90027.  Phone:  662-4404.
  FLYING  SAUCER  NEWS  IN _—  BRIEF

  COMING 1966 FLYING SAUCER CONVENTIONS  walking around the premises,  left his blessing on the
  Aetherius Society and its work.  For further inform-
  JULY 8,9,10:  AFSCA's 3rd National Convention,  ation call 465-9652,  or write to the above address.
Centennial Coliseum,  Reno,  Nev. (See details on back)  DELLA LARSON,  who for over a decade was the
  JULY 15,16,17:  WAYNE AHO sponsors the  guiding light and main instigator of Flying Saucer
Northwest's 5th Annual Interplanetary Age Conven-  meetings and activities in the San Francisco Bay
tion.  Lectures,  exhibits and New Age topics.  Ad-  Area,  passed away on October 25,  1965.  She was
vance registrations — $1.00 per day for adults,  50¢  70 years old.  She will be remembered for her
for students.  Write to:  Mrs. Lorena Vogt; 815 N.E.  energetic and enthusiastic dedication to the goals of
110th; Seattle, Wash.  Phone: Emerson 3-0956.  the Flying Saucer cause,  as well as for the highly
  AUGUST 6  thru 14th:  DR,  NEVA DELL  successful annual Northern California Space Craft
HUNTER'S 12th Annual Quimby Conference of Trans-  Conventions which she organized for nine years.
lation.  Lectures and discussions on New Age Topics,  (Della,  we salute you!)
including the stars,  science and metaphysics.  In  MAX MILLER,  former  publisher of the nowlovely scenic country at a beautiful,  modern motor-  defunct "Saucers" magazine,  and author of ''Flying
hotel.  $2.50 per day,  attendance.  Information from:  Saucers: Fact or Fiction" (now out of print),  has a
Quimby Center; P,O, Box 453; Alamogordo,
  N. M  new role.  He is now editor-publisher of "Real" mag-
  AUGUST 19,20,21:  SPACE RESEARCH,  Inc  azine which may be found on the newstands for 50¢.
Second Annual Convention,  at the North Branch  The August '66 issue devotes about half of its space to
YMCA in Spokane,  Washington.  Scenic location near  the Flying Saucer subject and will be well worth your
the Spokane River.  Indoor and outdoor convention  investigation.
activities.  For  information,  write to:  Space  WILBUR MILLER,  one of the early researchers
Research Inc.,  No.  6815 Julia, Spokane,  Wash.  in the Flying Saucer Movement,  passed away on
  OCTOBER 22,23:  GEORGE VAN TASSEL'S 13th  March 5,  1966.  He was known for his fine channel
Annual Spacecraft Convention at Giant Rock, Calif.  in  contacts  with several Space Beings,  including Monka
the desert 17 miles north of Yucca Valley. Bring  of Mars.  He also was the co-author — with his wife,
your own camping equipment and enjoy the outing.  Evelyn — of the book 'We of the New Dimension."
  OCTOBER 29, 30:  10th ANNUAL NORTHERN  Although he was a native of Missouri he had, in
CALIFORNIA SPACECRAFT CONVENTION,  Clare-  recent years, been a resident of Los Angeles and of
mont Hotel,  Berkeley,  Calif.  Info:  Angela Kilsby;  Morongo Valley, Calif.  (Good journey, Will!)
1265 Montgomery Blvd.; San Francisco,  Calif. 94127.  HOPE TROXELL, founder of the School of
  OUR NEW NAME:  Our magazine,  formerly  Thought, now situated in Independence, Calif. (P.O.
called "UFO International", has now become "Flying  Box 458),  reported recently that the neighboring
Saucers International", which we feel to be a more  towns of Bishop and Lone Pine had partial blackouts
appropriate title,  since Flying Saucers are no longer  during an evening channel (teltpathic) session she was
Unidentified Flying Objects as  far as  we are concern-  having with the Space Brothers.  The lights in Indeed.  Flying Saucers have become a  serious  issue  pendence went out completely for several minutes by
with thinking people all over the world.  We believe  a gradual fade-out,  and then came on again in the
that most of the objects which have been sighted have  same manner.  During this time,  the Space Being
been of extraterrestrial origin,  controlled by intelli-  speaking through Hope said to those present:  "Be not
gent beings who,  in form,  are very much like us.  afraid.  We are guardians of the  race.  Protection
Therefore,  we hope you will understand our reasons  will be given to those in the area."
for changing titles,  and that you will continue to  HAL WILCOX made a fine guest appearance on
enjoy reading our publication under its new banner.  the Joe Pyne TV Show, April 30,  1966.  Hal passed
  DR.  RAYMOND BERNARD,  founder of the  the lie-detector test with flying colors and conducted
Biosophical Society of Santa Caterina,  Brazil,  passed  himself with dignity and fortitude, which isn't always
away on Sept.  10,  1965.  He was the author of ''The  easy on the Joe Pyne Show.  During the test,  Hal
Hollow Earth" and several other books concerned  stated that he had taken a saucer ride to visit the
with the hollow earth theory.  second planet from the star, Alpha Centauri.
  MARIA ELLIOTT,  contactee,  psychic and  M.I.N.D,  stands for Mental Investigations of
founder of Maria Creative Womanhood Foundation,  New Dimensions,  an organization recently formed by
was a recent guest on the  Bob Grant Radio Show,  and  Wesley and JoNeli Bateman.  Their activities include
the Pamela Mason TV Show.  Glamorous Maria now  meetings,  courses and public appearances.  They
has her own program every Tuesday afternoon at  have demonstrated on several occassions for groups
2:30 p.m.  on KTYM radio.  She may be seen in  of up to 20 people,  their ability to telepathically
person every Wed. evening at Holland House Restau-  direct the movements of visable spacecraft overhead.
rant, 8:00 p.m. in the downstairs meeting room.  Write: M,I.N.D.;  4916 Franklin Ave.;  Hollywood,
An interesting program may be heard on New Age  California 90027.  Phone: 661-1731.
Topics,  and free readings are given.  For more  HELEN & GABRIEL GREEN contributed their
information about Maria's appearances, classes,  bit to the education of nearly 300,000 young people to
etc., phone 657-1631, or write: Dr. Maria Elliott;  the saucer subject at the Teen-Age Fair, April 1 thru
1543 Sunset Plaza Drive; Los Angeles, Calif.  90069.  10 at the Hollywood Palladium, where AFSCA had a
  DR.  GEORGE KING,  founder of the Aetherius  booth to exhibit saucer photos,  show slides,  and to
Society,  was host at the official opening of the  disseminate information.  We handed out over 13,000
Society's new headquarters at 6202 Afton Place;  Los  brochures and saucer photo post cards,  and talked
Angeles,  Calif.  90028;  on March 5,  1966.  After the  ourselves hoarse answering questions for 12 hours
program Dr. King personally escorted us  around the  each day.  Gabriel also made over a dozen radio and
attractive quarters.  He also reported that a high  TV appearances and interviews during the  Fair.
Space Being in physical form had visited there  We also had another booth at the National
recently for an hour and fifteen minutes and,  after  Aviation and Aerospace Exhibition at the Pan Pacific
  Auditorium,  May 17 thru 22.  Yes, we've been busy!
14
  Che London Free Press
  |
  UFO SIGHTED BY
  LEWISTON PEOPLE|

  i
  [ews yy ‘a ea
  2  sated  Bring,
  abet

  Western Outarios Foremost Newspaper

  118th YEAR OF PUBLICATION  LONDON, ONTARIO,  TUESDAY, MARCH 29, 1966—36 PAGES

  Tracked by Radar
  UFOs Sighted Over Wide Section of District
  ‘An  nidenifiet  fying  ob-  Wootstock.  The  mysterioun
  hime came n'a varegy of  ‘itr tntermitont  of  Yondon and  Sar
  forma,  scoording  10  their  ob  Pret  white  vapor  ‘  eldngof 388 Ox
  the  a
  E.  Kayhoe,  the

  Serattord at 1:28:  pom,

  ‘A  Thordalo “aren  man,
  Pioyd Basten, at  TAD reported  igen wp, then it would dla
  mpetent  wineama” who
  Tight!  moving  very"  lowly”  to
  {he northeast.  Ho atlonated it
  ‘on  the  pubject
  U1  director  the  wish.
  Fifteen minute  lotr  at Kine
sia  No  Kinlore  northwest  ef  bomne were ating
  a  "Te majoety of the Western  torg,  ix  miller  northeust  of

  ng Wn
  =  _

  ‘Tue suN-nULLETIN
  March
  aden NS
  17, '66!
  ame  at
  Mont.-Star, 4-19-! 66% fn
  Swamp cas” still”‘Flying’
  (THE TELEORAM,1

Not star, sayscollector
  T'could owe  & Fed
  Photographed
  IFlying Saucer, (is
  from i
  in Landon,  7 Days,
  Jama

of flying saucer photos  saci mtn
  DETROIT  —  (UPI)  Dr.  J.  Allen  Hynek,  the  ue Picture Censored)
  ‘The US.  Alr Force closed  font  eas
  top  Air  Force  adviser  on  te  ci
  Ais books today on the care  Seat who atid they
  UFO  sightings,  climaxed
  Tusny, Hehoney ttl with  of two “visits” by unideat  UFO closeup as it swept
  fied flying objects, I's ver  three days  of  onthescene  past their window.
  1  ma it fre at 6:20 travel
  Said ting  at  an enormous  rate of
  ‘>  connection )  dict:  swamp gas  Javestigation.  by
  foreman, is" yeary old.  Tle
  But  some of  the  people
  news  conference
  Other
  UFO  Aightings| tn oli
  ‘ec who chisedwet

  ge Mle of photographs  eared  "very  likely
  meanvile,
  i
  ‘of fying saucers and otbee ma-| who witnessed what they  Swamp  a8  was  Teaponsible  Hundreds of persons in both fr a2 hour.”
  {erial relating Yo space flight.
  police officers in St. Louis; | at
  -—
  thought wat a landing by a  tn’Des Motne;  trom oma]
  lowing,  ex tr aderresteial
  for mass reports of strange  Teported  seeing  the  Me.  Days ld “it  was a
  slowing objects this week a
  pace  eratt,  were hot  com-
  Hillsdale
  from a teuck driver on) tty nd ‘and shiny” ‘object mass  iden.  Tt was no
  Pletely.  copvinced  “the  ex:  Dexter  “and  in
  nN I  Fg  fay morning.
  "There
  ts | perts were right
  southern Michigan  Police Chief Gerald Buchert PASS
  William Van Horn, Hills
  ‘And  even while the  two  le civil defense director,
  most  spectacular’  Michigan
  id he was  “diseatistied

Brange
  house, lor a
  a | [sightings iehting
  ‘lt
  now wore the ta 4
  iy Park’ il”
  rom
  the explanation be-
  ‘of an “official explanation,
  Bucert said it ooked thant
  esa  ato) ie us many
  cause Hynek's investigation
‘colored lights aboot 8:30 p>  {FO sletingscetinoed to
  rman at Banger, Maine,
  \po  brietTM  who| Bucher
  of the  sighting was,  "oo
  ns the country,  and because Hynek  took a potshot at his obiecl|  gether
  Mp’ rural areas, and cle|  poate

  alike,
  *THE  D  VER  POST Fide. April 8, 1966
POLICE CHIEF "CONVINCED THEY SAW SOMETHING

  Six Teens Tell of ‘Chase’ by Buzzing, Lighted UFOs  ‘man, who might've been wearing a raincoat," dart through
  By ROBERT KISTLER  ‘The group was sitting around a fire they'd built inside  ‘lear beneath the clouds where the lights were.” As the third
  Denver Post Stall Writer  when they heard  “what sounded lke a man walking oo top  te ig stowagterug he widow ina ‘tn ee Ty  Set of lights hovered, the youths agreed they could see a dark
  Of the shelter"  The root ean easily be reached on foot from  als  sid they beard he eter.  ulin between the  lights.
  Six  plenicking  Denver  teenagers  reported  Thursday
 night they. were chased for an hour by unidentified flying  the slanting hillside,  group decided to leave  "Tt looked ke-a black fodthall—the blue lights on each
 ‘objects in Daniels Park south
  of Denver in Douglas County.  ‘Scrivner
  and Don Otis, an East High junior, son
  of Mr. and  [i heywore waling back tothe ca, Os trned and  end — with an orange on top, lke a bubble. The red light
  Mrs.  Elmo Otis, 999 Fairfax St,  stood on top of the shelter  say a real bright flash behind’ the hill over the abelter  ‘was at the botiom. Tt didn't move up and own, bat did east
  high scbyal students—three boys, three girs—told
  tnd  shined  a  Mashlight  Into  the  surrounding.  area  it it up the whole area,”
  ‘ad  ‘ beam of light at the ground,” Seriner said.
 Police Chie John C. Maclvor of Littleton they witnessed un
  saw nothing.
 cpl
  apparel  “hovering”  rd, Mae abdwhe his  Buzzing ‘All Around’  "Car Didn't Work Right”
  The to levingthe others bei ete sblermade
  led by & series of pulsating buzzing sounds which  thelr  way  ‘rough the  underbrush  back  to  the  road.  "I  2  cere oe ee  No direction, “Just  ‘The youngsters
  pled th the car — a 194 Ford — and
  9:30 pm.
 Tegan about
  thaweh ‘snes’ wee runing” srand’ year?”  Srivont
  ‘The, teen-agers,  all 17,  who described what they saw  )
  Scrivner said  later, “but
 Doeaitantly, were described’ by Macivor as being “sincere,  ry car ht work ight cou ett up to abut 3 (rales
 ‘cid saber and a ite shaken by what they saw.”
  ‘Just as we got tothe car," be sald, “both of us heard
  ‘areal weird buzang nose It seamed tobe ll around us
  carey
  ‘Two
  al aaroed ty saw the sae hing
  blue lights hovering low In the sky, about three.  ‘an hour) then  it would cat
  Town it would smtp again
  tured the
  ‘The group appeared at Maclvor’s office shortly before  ar, the youthssaw “two red lights  quarters of a mille away. The light  {gui
 up.  —
  Went from bright to dim. A third  Scrivner also, complained that the fadlo was “playing
  was real skeptical at fis, Maclvor said. “But each  round and parallel to each other  ‘There was a white light  ('rieup  and down between the bloes and "t up the  nothing ut stat” while they let the immediate area of the
  shelter
  parents ho knew they'd been plc:
  ‘The ights, about 30 feet part, appeared to be In afield
  {nthe center of the reds
  ‘No outline other than the lights—was visible.  ‘As they drove off, two of the  girs and Otis saw what
  I'm con-
  ‘he sai, “bat  con the far side of  the  road  “about 25  yards”  from. the  ‘They perched atop the car's hood and watched the bive  speared to be a  “large, oval ctce of light ~ It covered.
  and white ights “off and on’ for about a half boar. The  the whole read — (allowing the car.
  Mary Zolar, daughter of Mr. and Mrs, Jack A. Zolar,
  ‘65 Pairfax St,’  aetlor at East, was In the back seat with
  car,  They sav  and beard noting  ‘They returned to the  two others.
  was  huge and glowing,” sho sald, “and came right
  shelter
  up to Ue echo tne cay en wet  led abt
  ‘The four in the shelter said that, while the two had
  boen gone, they'd beard the same “footstep ke”  hovered near the ground. The buzzing continued,
  "The night was overcast with no stare visible but  “real  e.g  “lasing out” and
 {Up again to a stove shelter ult In the side ofa hil  the root again. Two of the girs said they'd also en

  5p
  Caled Sheriff's Office

  Deputy Gets Too
  ouths stopped at & service station and called the
  1 Daily Chronlele, Saturday, Apel!2  “|
Since December  |
  Arapaoe County thers ‘lfc, then went to Macivor's

  Sought By Soviets
  i
  ‘Maclvor sald  “one of the impressive things about thelr

  lose to ‘Saucer’
  was all sx didn’t claim t have seen the exact sarpe

  Area UFO Buffs Report  MOSCOW.  —  (Reuters)  \—ynecensary  to lok for extrater:
  ‘ng aie bane tne
  Soviet aclentsts, undeterred by|restralcivilaations,” tald. Ac  Ad acolo te are rel stk up” be ded
  operations officer at Lowry Air Force Base sald
  Skies Clear of Saucers
  Western tkeplclam, believe It a|adembelan Viadimir Kotellkoy,
  RAVENNA, Ohio (AP) = "*We  acer  aid  1  looked  Ike
  8 veteran radio engineer  Jearly Friday he'd recelved a call apparently from the Arap-
  ossble that super clvlztion 88  wore close,  closer than
  T ever“ ‘wo  table saucers  put togeth=
  exits in  space and is tying to]  [thoe County sberif, reporting the sightings

  swhethe  te  ‘Others inthe group were Michael Simington, son of Mr.
  ecent  ings ip ter scout  of  make contact with earth
  ii  Portage County Deputy
  Because of Moscow's refusal  land Mrs.  James E. Simingion, 73 Jackso nSt,« junor at
  canatins  in  pce  tat Dale Spool be aa
  East; Paty Retherford, daughier of Mr. and Mrs. Neal Ret
  ronths ago a.  Soviet Ohio into Penneyivania,
  group of  parser,  W.  L,  Nett,  “were
  cfr, Ha Haron, a unl at Malton High Shel,
  seoonmers fugesed 4 Nori | Hundreds of persons in both  lose”  to the object tn separ
  faperis  scoffed.  a|wide research progra  cars and chased it 66 miles tor2  aye Hurley, daughler
  of Me. and Mrs. Lloyd Hurley,
  «10° S78 Moctview Bivd., a junior at Machebout High School
  ene Hean|"  Last  Aor, Kardaber,  4  fi bour  ands bal,  trom
  ‘Two other UFO sightings were reported inthe state, one
  faconomer Nola Kedamer ued i pnane radio early Sunday moraine.  Ravenna  to Conway,  Pay tear
  Claimed be heard range ng scope to CTR, a quate {"Patice Chiet Gerald Bucert  {in Delia and the other in Denver
  Pittsboreh
  gt || sale rom space and specaited  ‘said he clocked it at
  ‘Spaur
  have!  they mish have come tom  aoveed by the Mowat, Wino:
  et  ttt espera
  ‘manmade radio soure,  omar Observatory in Pa  watched an object which was “glowing, green in color and
  magszie| dena,  Cali.  ound Spaur said i
  |""A" popuar" scence  3” The men observed it for almost two hours be-
  |ien ple zt iasing Save)  “TR sett eid the seas
  scien to find out what  they/he. picked  up  were 1,08 000)
  Es  [times  stronger  than  previous
  Friday, “‘Technika Moladeshi|eartabound radio emlssoas.  ‘Spaur sald the Lines ofthe ab- det
  (Young  “Teehniques)  reported)  “There  are  2  oot ware very distinc, "Some Sighied about seven UFOs which appeared
  at ao nee prepared to elements which do to nr  ody  "had control ovgr it"  be
  et od cone  oat the posit.  the Gheory “that there  sald,  It  waso’t  just  ating  ‘The students sald the objects disappeared into the clouds
  1 note compel tat il tebe evasion” he sd  1h Sound, ean maneuver”  ater about 10 minates
  AFSCA  CONVENTION  SPEAKERS

  WAYNE S. AHO;  The New Age  Foundation,  Inc.;  ll.  JOHANNES "HANNO" MAYBERRY;
  8  Smith St.;  Seattle,  Wash.  98109.  Unified Research Center, Inc.;
  Publish:  'The Aquarian Dawn" (Donation basis).  P.O. Box 764; Selma, Oregon  97538.
 .  CARL A.  ANDERSON:  12.  HOWARD MENGER;
  2522 E. Pearson Ave.;  Fullerton,  Calif.  202 Schumann Drive;  Sebastian,  Florida  32958.
 .  ORFEO ANGELUCCI;  13.  LAURA MUNDO;  The Interplanetary Center;
  4160 Verdugo Road;  Los Angeles,  Calif.  90065.  27359 CranfordLane;  Dearborn Heights,  Mich.
 .  MICHAEL "X" BARTON;  Futura Press;  48127.  Publish:  'The Interplanetary News" (Free).
  5949 Gregory Ave.; Hollywood,  Calif.  90038.  14,  MEL NOEL;
  Phone:  464-0441.  2760 Hollyridge Drive;  Hollywood, Calif. 90028.
  WESLEY BATEMAN;  Mental Investigations of New  15.  SIDNEY PADRICK;
  Dimensions  (M.  .)s  4916 Franklin Ave.;  196 Hidden Valley Road;  Watsonville,  Calif.
  Hollywood,  Calif.  90027.  Phone:  661-1731.  16.  CHIEF FRANK B.  STANDING HORSE;
  Publish: "Prism" (12 issues-$3.00).  AFSCA Unit #9;  Rt. 2,  Box 194,  (27401 Hwy.  74);
 .  MARIANNE FRANCIS;  Solar Light Center;  Perris,  Calif.  92370.  Phone:  657-2873.
  Rt.  2,  Box 572-C;  Central Point,  Oregon 97501.  ik  DR.  FRANK E.  STRANGES;
  Publish:  "Starcraft" (4 issues-$2.00).  International
  Evangelism Crusades, Inc.;
 f  DR.  DANIEL W.  FRY;  Understanding,  Inc.;  P.O. Box 252;  Venice,  Calif.  90293.

  Pandan "Understanding" (12 issues-$2.50).
  0.  Box 105;  Merlin,  Oregon  97532.  18.  MOLLIE THOMPSON;
  Linton,  Astley Bank,  Darwen, Lancs., England.
 .  CALVIN C.  GIRVIN;  19.  HOPE TROXELL;  School of Thought;
  6711 Yucca St.;  Hollywood,  Calif.  90028.  P.O.
  Box 458; Independence,  Calif.  93526.
 .  GABRIEL GREEN;  Amalgamated Flying Saucer  20.  GEORGE W.  VAN TASSEL;
  Clubs of America,  Inc.;  2004 N.  Hoover St.;  Ministry
  of Universal Wisdom,  Inc
  Los Angeles,  Calif.  90027.  Phone:  662-4404.  P.O. Box 458;  Yucca Valley,  Calif.  92284.
  Publish:  ''Flying Saucers International"  Publish:  'Proceedings" (Donation basis).
  (6 issues-$3.00).  -  HAL WILCOX;
 .  DR.  GEORGE  KING;  The Aetherius Society;  Institute
  of Parapsychology;
  6202Afton Place;  Hollywood,  Calif.  90028.  871 Gower St.;  Hollywood,  Calif.  90038.
  Publish:  'The Aetherius Society Newsletter"  Phone:  469-5438.
  (Donation basis).  Phone:  465-9652.
  SPACE  AGE  SONGS  by Mollie Thompson
  THE COCKEYED BALLAD
  SPACE-TALK
There's a cockeyed feeling in the world today
That power politics is here to stay.  The powers that be will tell us we're alone.
But China,  Russia and the  U.S.A.  They'll tell us that in space we are unique;
Boy—don't let them fool you!  On this little desert island we call Earth
  Take a look at this world of ours,  The human race is just a kind of freak.
  Just one mud ball in the sea of stars.  When we send our envoys into space
  Other planets have no color-bars,  There'll be a smile upon this planet's face,
  "Cause they've got perspective.  ‘Cause brother, right out there—I'm telling you,
Yanks and Ruskies put men into space,  There's another human race; it's very true!
But it's all a mad politician's race,  They're a very,  very peaceful crowd,
One-up-manship in this Year of Grace.  For they just never go to war.
It makes you giggle.  And they cannot interfere,
  The population stands and stares,  This is by Universal Law.
  While men in capsules explore upstairs.  The spaceman's message to us all
  Why we can't even manage our own affairs!  Is based on how to banish fear,
  Some cheek—colonization!  And if we only understand,
Besides, they've got people on Venus and Mars.  We will find it heaven here.
They got lads and lasses and ma's and pa's.  While we must rely on war,
And they've got better transport than four-wheel cars.  We never will be happy here.
Have you ever seen 'em?  While this world's economy
  Those Flying Saucers whisking through our skies  Is based on hardship,  strife and fear.
  Must take some power to make them rise.  How do they live without a war
  But government departments just hide their eyes,  In their lands of milk and honey?
  And call them meteors!  They don't need economy,
With all the lies that they print and shout,  Because they don't use any money!
The general public's got its work cut out—  They cannot give us any ships,
Figuring what it's all about.  So we must try and build our own.
But just you keep on trying.  But they are waiting right out there,
  I suppose you know why I'mtelling you this,  Oh, my friends, we're not alone!
  So you won't shriek or shake your fist  How do they go at such great speed,
  When you discover Martians do exist!  And vanish then without prediction?
  They're real nice fellows.  Because they use free energy,
I know, 'cause I met one a week ago!  And there isn't’any friction.
His ship came down for an hour or so.  Brother have you seen their ships ?
He talked to me,  but then he had to go.  Sisters have you seen them glow,
Real interested I was!  As they dance and hover in the sky,
  Got brothers on Venus and Saturn,  it seems—  And make our fastest jets look slow?
  Fly their ships on magnetic beams.
  They wear one piece suits—you can't see any seams;
  But apart from that—they're just like us!
NEW SAUCER PHOTOS: These remarkable photos of Flying Saucers were taken by Dr. Daniel W. Fry,
President of Understanding, Inc., of P.O, Box 76, Merlin, Oregon 97532. Your editor enlarged them
from the original 16mm color movie film.  Spots on the photos are due to the extreme enlargement of
scratches and dust spots on the film. Of special interest is the fact that the same type of craft was
photographed near Merlin, Oregon in a wooded section, and again near Joshua Tree, Calif. on the desert.
  Would Y  \Object
  In  Citizen-News|
  ‘Thursday, Apa 7, 1980  |

  Sky Near
  ‘Bloom‘dale ||Planet Pluto
  Tine'nvine” | Saucers Seen,
  scenezres| Talked With?
  sinking

  Boy Is Burned
  THOSE SPACE PEOPLE! “ 3  6
Not a Star --Notan Aircraft, Says  |  By ‘Flying Ship’
oe S. Smith Family of North Bend  Flying Saucers,
  Quakes Linked

amie  Te  fo  Bn  10

 ‘Mysterious UFO’  |  BRILLIANTLY LIGHTED

  Escorts Burns Plane
  ak  %
  Police Follow .  ‘The Thing’ Sets Britons} :
 Meteorite  Saucer 85 Miles  : Speculating Anew
 Flares Over
 Northeast

  Mot
  We 2,16  ops ete

  SAUCER BLAST? SIX  BALL OF FIRE
  TOWNS SEE MY:

  eh Lf
  u
  2  THE WALL STREET JOURNAL  |  ‘The spokesman quickly  adds:  “We have n  TRAE
  a ee  "Hong Kong China Mail
  jay,  Dec
  London,  Ontario Free Press 3-26-66

y]
  New ‘Fireball?’ Raises. |  : 100 Watch UFO  Flying
  An Old’Question:  Do
  saucers
  Flying Saucers Exist? | |The Air Force's approach disturbs some
  | report evaluated by the Air ‘Force has ever
  Disc-Like Object Hovers,. Rises

  people, however. “Ihe Air Foree should nami
  For Two Hours East of Kettle Point
  Californian, Who ‘Talks’ to Men  |  here are natural phenomena taking place  un  By JIM ETHERINGTON  UFO  sightings  were  received
  der our noses of which we know nothing,”  says  Free Press Sarnia Bureau  Saturday  night  as  far  north
  From the Stars, Says ‘Yes’;  |  LM Levit, rector of Fels Planetararh atthe  SARNIA — A  revolving ob-  as the tip of the “Thumb” in  EOPLEin North Queens-
  Scientists  Assail  Air  Force|  Franklin  Institute  in  Philadelphia.  He  adds:
  ‘The  Air Force is trying to explain something
  fect,  sighted  in  the  sky  east
  was
  Lake  Huron.  Jand are) mystified by
  of Kettle Point last night,
  that  tant susceptible t explanation”  watched  for  more  than  two
  Odd lights  were reported in  three separate reports
  By Euuior Cantso  Robert Risser, director of the Oklahoma Sct
  hours by about 100 persons.
  the sky  over Oakland County  Flying Saucers.
  and the neighboring Detroit
  ence and Ar Foundation planetarium at Okla
  Lawrence Bresette, who op-  The frst report camefrom  a

  bijanana
  area, Others were  reported
| _ They'se back. The latest was sighted a few
  nights ago by residents and pllota tn the north
  | homa Cty, Believes
  fa  iis  sar‘inder
  “the Air Force must have
  upde.  down  during  Aug
  ‘erates a store on the Kettle  westward in the Lansing area  BI-yeau
  ley, who ‘while
  rear-old_
  driving &
  Point Indian Reserve,  sald a
  Dr. J.  Allen Hynek of North:  a neighbouring
  fom tler of states and Canada.  ‘They described  motorist brought the object:to  tractor through
|{t'as an orange  fireball.  The Air Force at first  were ancribed by the Air Forve to sightings of
  his attention about 8 pm. He
  western  University,  scientific  property on his way to his own
  called It an unidentified flying object,  but now  consultant  to the  U.S.  Air  farm, heard a loud hissing noise
  said he looked at it through
| thinks it was a meteor,  Some other people  weren't vsibie  at  the time the  Air Force sald  Forte  said  phenomena  seen  abot Wwe the noise of the tractor.
  Dinoculars  and  could see red,
  at Dexter and Hillsdale on the
J atted  st  x'fiying  saucer  blue, green and white lights  Suddenly  about  25
  night of March 20 probably
  Several people say they saw the fireball land  flashing from the disc-shaped  ahead of him, a blue-grey saucer
  were  the  result  of  | swamp
  ‘Thursday night.  An ii-year-old boy  in Lorain,  |/""'te whole  problem,  says J.  Allen  Hyntek  object.
  Ohio,  says he watched it drop into the woods  gases.
  Mr. Breasette  said
  near his home.”  A woman in Elyria, Ohio,  10  Sheriff  Douglas  Harvey  of
  miles away,  claims  abe  saw it  plunge info &  | the Air Force,  is  that  the  matter  should  be  Washtenaw  County  and  civil  terrifle speed h
  defence director William Van  ‘wouth-westerly direction,
  Vacant  lot  across the street from  her home.  studied more thoroughly
  Others say they saw it streak into Lake Bich  ‘Pressures to conformity  in  academ!  Horn of Hillsdale County criti
  ran.  Scientists  and  police  combed  a.  TB-acre|  cles  and  fear  of  ridicule  have  slowed  the  elzed  Dr.  Hynek’s  report.
  allowing  only  periodic  sight
  Van Horn said the swamp gas
  rea near Pittsburgh after a woman there saw  study," according  to  Robert Hall,  a sociology  ings,
  the object crash to earth  explanation  was  an  attempt
  “smoldering.  |  professor at the University of Illinois in Chi-  “Tve never seen anythin  to  “explain  it away  arbitrar-
  Despite these witnesses and search efforts  cago.
  “We all
  found  close by, some of them
  Uke this"  he said.
  Iowever, the thing has yet to be found, In this  ‘The  possibility  of  life  on  Mars  is  an  un-  newly made,
  ‘saw It. It was low  about 200  J
  regard,
  objects,
  it is like all other Unidentified flying
  or UFOs,  which are mysterious be:
  popular
  | Prank  B.
  thing  to
  Salisbury,
  consider  these
  a professor of
  days,”
  plant
  says
  phy
  ‘or 300 feet off the ground to  Flying Saucers.  ncDiting the Tast eight months,
  Jess than.  different,

  Gain Proponent
  the east. Then it slowly began
  cause they are-seen but never found  siology  at  Colorado  State  University.  At  the  ‘Sightings ot Fiying Saucers hay
  to move up”
  Feporrted  ‘North,
  Ciena ‘press,
  Whatever it tums out to be—meteor, satel  risk  of being unpopular, Mr.  Salisbury told  the  been  in  the
  Mr. Bressette said it could
  Lite part, hoax, weather oddity or man trom|  fifth  annual  Space  Conference  this  year  N.Y. Dat News Dispeteh
  not have been  swamp  gas
  Marn—it| appeared ina banner year for.auch  ‘there may be some natural explanation of  |  NEW YORK — The nephew of  of sightseers  have
  objects, which almost disappeared from public| | mese things, but a  tentative possibility to be  which was suggested was the  the late Dag Hammarskjold  stocked
  to the Ho  goon,
  consciousness following nash of reports of  considered is that UFOs are spaceships from
  cause of unidentified “flying
  Jnas startled America’s top  inthe Tully District during the
  | Mars.  object sightings in the Detroit  last few days to view the circles
  flying  saucers  in  the  midias0s:  “We've had  science writers by telling them
  |“  Fueling  the  fiying-sauger  fasea last week.  partly hidjen by
  more reports this year than in any year since  controversy  has  he believes that’ flying saucers
  “ave scen ramp gas lights
  1087, when we bad more than a thousand,”  says  been  the large number of reports  from what  lexist and that they come from
  a spokesman  for Project  Blue Book,  the  Ait  many people consider reliable witnesses  pilots  This was not the sam
  jouter space.
  there  hast
  Force program set up in 1948 to evaluate re-  with  technical  backgrounds.  Since  197,  more
  |  Knut Hammarskjold, “whose
  been any swamp  gas  lights
  ports of the phenomena.  ‘than 100 private,  military and comme:
  around  here  since  before the  fate uncle was secretary gener-
  Visitors From Outer Space  nge  objects
  fal of the United Nations, spoke
  ‘Nobody knows what the objects are or where  to a convention here of the avi-
  they come from, but there is no lack of theories  is  ditticutt,  \Mr. Bressette said his breth-
  ation-space  writers  associa~
  report things  et, Jeffery, also reported see
  =or of controversy. The Amalgamated Flying  tion.
  ing an object over Sarnia. Th
  Saucer Clubs of America, Ine. is sure’ the  fears  ago,"  says  \&
  spokesman  for  American  Airlines.  "But  our|  one stayed stationary for a  Hammarskjold also suggested
  “gaucers”  ‘come  from  outer  space.  How  do
  pilots haven't m:  a report for  short time then shot across  that our space neighbors  are
  they.  know?  ‘The  “apace  people”  have  told  |
  vertheless,  ‘we have
  on file  a great num-|  the aky at a very high speed.  decoming more and more inter-
  them
  ber of reports  ots  who don't want their|  n officer in control opera-  ested in what people are doing
  Not only that, says Gabriel Green, who
  heads the California group, “‘epace people give  ames  used  but  still want  to  tell  somebody|  at  Selfridge  Air  Force  on earth.
  contactees  information  about  life  on  other  what  they've  seen,  s J.  B.  Hartantt,  Jr,  , Mount Clemens,  Mich.  “The possible existence of
  Planets and solutions to insurmountable prob-  president of the Aircraft Owners  Pilots As-|  the Canadian  sighting  neighbors in space will, if con-

  osges
  efeaiasadinet yen
  Toma on our planet.”” One suggestion allegedly  sociation,  And he says  T haven't drawn any
  |  was  the fourth reported to  irmed, create problems of le
  made to Mr. Green in 1960 by'a Visit from A  conclusions  myself,  but I  him last  night.  ‘The other  Poitial | and technical jxU

  UN Watch For Saucers Urged _
  got a. good myst  three were from the Detroit  characteristics,” he said
  Gent as a write-in candidate,  (He campaigned
  bHemy, then decided not to run.)  He  said  no  radar  reports’
  ‘The’  National  Investigations  Committee  on  had been obtained on any of  UNITED NATIONS, N.X.,  er space is sending flying
  Aerial  Phenomena  (NICAP),  Private.  re-  the sightings  Feb. 7 (AP}—Colman Yon:  saucers  regularly  on  test
  search  organisation  in  Washington,  doesn't  ‘Mr,  ‘Bressette reported jet  keviezky, an employe in the  flights to earth,
  hold with that theory.  “We  reject  reports  planes  in  the  area  at  one
  UN.  Office of Public Infor-  He told Thant only the
  noble beings landing on earth to solve all our  point while the group watched  mation, proposed to Secre-  United Nations could be ex-
  problems,  ‘along the Lake Huron shore.  tary-General U Thant today  pected  to have sufficient
  Mara are a lot of bunk? Not necessarily, says  But there was no possibility  that members of the United  authority to establish con-
  8  Congressional  the object he saw was a jet  tact or represent mankind
  Nations establish a network
  vestigation  would  prove that UFOs  ‘are reat  In Michigan new reports of  in a face-to-face - meeting
  to observe flying saucers.
  ‘objects...  under the control of living|
  ‘Vonkeviezky,  who says  ith extraterrestrial vish
  ‘AS  an  afierthought,
  the wpokeamas  |  _he believes someone ih out-
  “smmere are a tremendous itimber of ego-|

  STRANGEE OBJECT
| maniacs who have been able to appoint them:|

  fused  |
  ‘One man who's not confused at all is Charles

  OVER MT. WILSON,
  A.Maney, professor emeritus of physics and
  mathematics at Detlanca College in Ohio. Says

| ing on the fact that the objects often interfere
  with local electrical elreults, indicating to him
  2a was voreening over
  Mount Wilson early today but]
  oes puree upaeay ae
  activity” during the peri-
  they have “‘a mearis of propulsion associated
  |  it didn’t catch the entire city|  od.
| with magnetic fields.”  ‘An Air Force spokesman
  ‘There's Nothing To 1"
  and  newspaper  at Vandenberg said the Air
  switchboards were flooded  Force's  “Project  Blue
|  Such notions are scotted at by astronomers,
  with calls describing the  Book” office in Washington
  however.  “Ail this  is  imagination  outside the
  was investigating.
| realm of aclence,” says DonaldH: Mens,  ‘An.  observer  at  Mather
| rector of the observatory  at Harvard,  "  have
  Air Force Base near Sacra.
  examined Air Force cases  and discovered that
  long tail and 2 light at the  mentotheorized that the ob
  UFOs  ‘all  have  simple  explanations  in  terms
  end”  ject may have been gas res
Jot well-known natural phenomena, ‘There's not
  |  “Te was first sighted about  idue left from Nevada
Jone cause, but hundreds. Some are quite spec
  is am. and remained in view  missile firings which re-
  tacular, such as  reflections from ice erystals or
  {tor about half an hour.  flected light.
  bright  ‘stars,  searchlights  on  clouds  or  igh
  Asimilar fireball was  Sgt.  David  Tellotson,  of]
  flying spider webs. But to some people the exis
  tence of flying saucers is a matter of religious
  | sighted about the same  Hollywood division, sald the|
  |  \  time from Sacramento and  object here appeared to be|
  fanaticism,” he says.  "
  from Vanderberg Air Force  lover Griffith Park.  “It was a
  But Mr. Menzel réads more into the Air
  Force data than does the Air Force iteelt. Of
  Base, It was reported  bright green sploteh, elon,
  the 9,786 UFO reports made to the
  Vandenberg reported no  ested, and not blink
  Air Force
  launches.  during the  sald.
  since 19(7, 473 remain clateitied as ("unident
  preceding 24 hours which  ‘The only solid fact emerg.
  ling: A lot of people.are up at]
  fied,” a spokesman says. He defines this cate-
  might account for the phe
  gory ax containing sightings, whose pertinent  ‘Report Them. . . Forget Iti—  nomenon  and  said  radar  4 am.
  Gata can’t be correlated with any known object
  or phenomena  I Have Enough Credibility Problems As It Is
  Gabland.al2Tribune

Flying Saucers Aref
  104 DARY, $2.25  A MONTH

Poppin’ Up All Overs
  MYSTERY
  OBJECTS

  AIRLINER DETOURS
  TO CHASE U.F.O.

Air Force  UFO

  40 See ‘Flying Saucer’ |ae
report  refuted
  QPP Ch

  Ask: Probe of lying Saucers _  I  i  *
  1  i  |UFOLands  |%:
  7 li Swamp

Now those flying saucers  —————
ed to paapeyoigine  %,  BREWER W con

  LANDING SITES AVAILABLE  Sse", |
  Sicneo... Barty Wvers  MAYOR  |
 Head Saucerer Believes

  Are Watching Us
 Martians

  Who's in All  Five  sightings  were  re-
  potted on Moaday of walseati=

 Those Saucers?  fed fying cbjects, obgerved
  fa tae shy lathe gorthest
  Detroit area.
  Northwest Precinct pollce
  station  bad three Feports,
  GABRIEL  Sacer ote,  ant Pale?
  “Parkin

  By Harold Scarlett
  call THAT
  icp i ro wins see
  xy ball and the gree  —Wa hardly
  Head Saucerer
  on Moda, 7.29 a sete
  like  Uncle  Martin  on  “My  Favorite  Woods,
  Was Jesus Christ a Martian?  Martian
  "Ws  bard to say,”  sald Gabriel  Green  sald he had newer scen one
  Green thoughtfully”  Then he added
  that It certainly seems plausible
  ts no trick at all to walk on water
  fr ascend to the heavens if you have &  ings Just  patting  ‘him  on
  Martian levitation belt around your  ‘Oh, I wouldn’t believe just anyone
  walst and an antigravity bean to  who  Walked up to me and said he was
  ide, Green explained.  ‘Green replied
  Furthermore,  he sald, the Martians
  from the White
  now ‘visiting earth qn ‘flying  saucers  id  President  Eise
  are trying to save the earth's people
  from thelr own follies — just as the
  ‘Savior was  and 8 man
  ‘Green  can  speak  with  some  au-
  lke  the  President
  thority’ ‘on these ‘mafters because, ‘be
  *t  You bes
  says, he met and talked with a Martian
  fnce. Also a four-foot man from the
  sad he once  asked
  a  spaceling
  ‘pha Centaurl star system. Also some
  ‘ther unearthly visitors.  ‘prove  himself by disappearing
  “BUT HE  REFUSED  and told me to
  SOMETIMES, HE said, he met these  St
  He was on  a  the  same  tne on Sunday
  fying ser crewmen ‘by tepatle,
  appointments. These were arrangs  five  floors  high,  and  I walked
  through ssscclates of swith tie
  pathic talents  From B.C.  the Post,  May 9,  1966  back  and
  ‘And once in & while" he said,

  solve these problems before we destroy  physical contact with crews of these  were really  canals  for distributing the

  ourselves”  frat
  Green said he has sighted 85 to 100  and’  that  the two  Martian
  4 he is  trying to do his
  humble best to  help them spread that
  Russian astronomers  hate
  menage.

  “The solutions they have given.”  he
  sald  he  had  imet  the  Alpha
  said, “deal primarily with resolving the
  motives  for  wars,  expansionism  and  Pager

  poverty. They hope to eliminate the  Inatgnificant
  Ravenot nations » ©  through superior  arily  and was

  financing.  They have an
  "The current series of sightings and  AD  they  do  have  lapses,
  homie system’  they
  though
  landings, T understand, will increase.
  They are not going to go away, as  “There was one decison  that if any
  ‘personally am trying to trans
  some members of our: government  nation  on ‘earth
  ‘would ‘Tike  wil  fal,
  HE SAID RUEFULLY, however
  "WHY DO THEY keep buzzing down
  that the saucer clubs themacives are
  ‘and searing people
  ’
  fan economic  pinch that has prevented
  “What  with nuclear proliferation  at  ces  soon eee

  “Green said he runs the saucer chibs  He path  ral was os
  cout of his own home, at 2008  North  ‘metaliclooking

  Hoover in Los Angeles,  "to cut down  Shirt which he sald would
  they  park,  hele pa
  the universe along with us,  ‘Green ex  on the overhead.”  Allin al,  &  handsome

  plat
  “This ts one of the primary reasons  ‘abroad,  with &
  members. Houston has no club, he said,
  “T  felt  ba  hale and it  was  quite  “Ol,  SOMETIMES  they a tually
  tup in the sky
  why the extra-terrestr  down tc
  But he does have some interested Hous  ward  the center  of  the  forehead  hem.  “Then

  to watch over  tonians on his mailing lst  But I rather  doubt all
  We are a contact-oriented  research  their hair  alte, 2
  vanced  group,”  be said,  "meaning that  many
  oclological ‘knowledge to help us Te  Sf our members  have made actual  Sit SAID THE MARTIAN canals
  ‘cs  walking  on
  nding into the heavens

  Bducation until he

  Green said naturally he asked to
  take the spacemen's picture, but they
  bided  by  thelr wishes

  SAUCER OR STRAW HAT, THIS FLEW IN CALIFORNIA LAST AUGUST  “THAT DEMONSTRATES the pow-
  ighway Patrolman Ke) Heflin Photographed
  It Through His Car Windshield  he mind of these people. Just
 PAGE t—sroriicmT  SUNDAY, MAY  15,  1966,  THE  MOUSTON  POST

  THE PHILADELPHIA  INQUIRER,  MONDAY MORNING.  APRIL  18.  1968

UFO = aWith| Deputies i n 85-Mile Chase
_EAVONA  matysecis ead ght  re

‘tom, Pea
Pepa Da

during the Koreas
cla sleet  tout

te  ex  E
  iat" Spar Tadoed to  thesage,  He
  salah badbe

  Bu  dope icant  Hie  Tei,
  186

  Mysterious Sky Objects Have Texans in Dither
  Tex,  May  1ifourfoot  strip  of  what  apyabout  2%  miles  distant  at)  3.  W.  Hatiey,  a farmer

  inentined  ying)  “Ws Myingsaucersighting time and I'm determined to se one
  ‘bietall 'and picked ‘sp 3/ choker
  World Flying
  ;
  Saucer | REPORT  SIGHTING OF ‘SAUCER’
  | 2 SOUTH AFRICAN POLICEMEN-

  JOHANNESBURG, South Afri- The two men claimed that, as
  It'll be Long Before  JANUARY 15, 1965

  Believers Convene  “Saucer”
  THE HERALD-NEWSIs Forgotten
Now York Times Service
  MINNEAPOLIS TRIBUNE
  ¢a—South  “African
  ientists investigated Thursday
  police  and  they approached the object, it
  took off silenfly at great speed  By PETER A. DVARACKAS jmistery
  9g  which  has yet to be|
  “They accept spacecraft as a|  a report that a flying saucer-  flames shooting out of its
  LOS ANGELES,  Calif,  —|fact of life.  Their interest is|  object ad landed on a  Tit Sam  Many months will pass hefore|" “Listen . . . this sounds crazy,
 ‘The  “urgent  problem”  of|iM  contacting  spacemen  di-  main highway near Pretoria, the  the impact of the strange flying| but I saw something in the sky._
 improving  conmunications|'€ctly
  or through telepathy.”  |  country’s administrative capital.  Scientists  who  examined |  ‘objects which dominated the|Do you know what it is?” This
  spot where the officers  said that  North Jersey skies this week/was the question posed to the|
 with the thousands of visitors|  Green, who regularly runs  ‘Two  patrolling police  officers

  !
  they saw the object are reported:  fades into memory  [Police atthe Noth Jersey police
 from outer space who  sup-|for president as a ‘space age  reported  seeing the  flaming  ‘The bright  white  disk  that| radio hook-up
  in Pompton Lakes.
 posedly are circling the earth |candidate,” says he cannot,  “saucer,” about 30 feet in  di  to  have  found  that  a  sixfoot
  bate or Ee eee  une ‘The calls came in from Wanawas  afforded  solemn  delib-| practice telepathy but insists  ameter, shortly after eidnight  me
  wide section of the
  ene tarred ‘oroad  and  hovered  periodically over}que, Ringwood, West Milford,
 eration here this weekend at|he  has  met  spacemen  on  at
  One of them, Koos de Klerk,  had een  Dadiy burved, Grass ||  the Wanaque Reservoir wil pre-aterson, Totowa, Wayne and
a special convention of fly-|least six occasions.  The last  fsid  that  the’  shiny  copper-col-
  ce  cies  sige  of  the  highway.
  ||  ido  an  “gmplo.  amount  of  on:  Butler,
 ing saucer buffs,  of his  visitors,  he said, was  ored object  resembled a  giant  also
  25° |mas reported aight |  Yetstion or weeks to.come. |  Astgunded  residents  were
  four feet tall and came from}}  spinning top.  cece  deed, thousands of eyewitnesses|searching
  ‘amon the papa Seaeleet (od Alpha Centauri solar)  ~~  know well the story of thatlEven the policean. were  dumb-
  explanation.  for
  tes  was  a.  self-professed|  :  stranger.

 named Standing Horse, an|  A muscular, even-featured  esd ie ore pL  tea Grace Geos sGate:
 Englishwoman who regularly|young man named Wesley  Investigators from the Nation-|  "The UFO was described thén|
 issues mimeographed reports|Bateman said he never had  al Investigation Committee on|as a white and garishly bright
 on her conversations with|met spacemen but that he  ‘Aerial Phenomena (NICAP) may disk, two feet in diameter.
 space travelers,  a man who|was in “constant communica-  é  =  arrive today in Upper Passaic|  According to observers,”  the|
 offered to book  “group|tion with them through tele-  County from Washington D.C.  tolodd movements of the myster-|
 sightings” of flying saucers|pathy”  and offered a_pro-  ‘  probe the UFO sightings.  lious visitor was  ent  |
 and a presidential candidate| gram of instruction to other  a  Dr. George White, an elec-|Some felt  as if it were “toying”
 campaigning on the flying| delegates who sought similar  tronics expert, and’ Dr. Jobn|with police,  citizens and. bor-
 saucer ticket.  contacts. His blonde wife,  Pegano of Fort Lee will investi-lough officials by performing|
  THE  yho|tards, was kept busy signin;  object and then repo!  fat  times appearing “as if it
assembled
  ina cavernous es |upstudentass  NiCAP. “Amouncement of e were looking dows upon te
 tablishment
  ishment
  called
  called
  the Blar-|
  the Blar-|
  :
  “There is no mystery as to
  impending study was made by|spectators from a silent station-
  Richard Hall, assistant director ary position high in the heavens
 ney  Castle, weren't much im-|whether the space men are  of NICAP.  jand by making neat right angles|
 pressed with Thursday's Sol watching us — some have al-  Nightly Vigil  ,,|98 if it were using the sky as
viet  moon  landing,  but  they| ogy infittrated our society.”  Police at Wariaque, the state’s|a chalk board. .
were awed and confused  by  i  =  :  largest water storage basin, con-|:  Made Several Stops
what  they reported  to  be  a  tinue
  to maintain a nightly'vigil|  Tye  YFO  then  made  quick
  increase  in  flying]  ‘WHS  zee  at the headworks, in Ringwood]
  What's going to happen?”  |  g
 saucers.
  F  co
  ‘Avenue and Westbrook Road]
  /  Flying Saucers.——-  to spot that weird disk of light Fig
  On delegate, Marianne  2-3-66)  E  5  ‘which was seen as late as Thurs.
Francis,  warned  that  the|  (To the Editor, S.C.M. Post)  Gay night making sharp dips and Pog “aoeone 3  eg ae
 sightings could mark the be-|  sir—citizens beware! This is  :  maneuvers over the reservoir: | disappeared,
gigning  of  some  “ominous| not  drill! If you report what  \  It was Tuesday at 6:30 p.m.)"  Hours later at 2:15 Wednesday
cifanges” for the earth’s pop-|  you  see, your  report will  be  :  when residents, motorists, muni-lmorning,  it  reappeared  over
ulation. But the convention]  ireated  as hallucination. | Your  3  cipal  officials,  and’  police|wyckotf’ and five minutes later
 chairman,  Dr.  Frank| honest desire to ‘help solve a  glanced up at the sky and began|it was spied over the reservoir
Stranges, said the “interplan-|  SiScouated by harassing con  the first
  chapter  of an_aeriallin Wanaque where police say it
etary  visitors”  would  turn|  frontation. by paid investigators  lalmost came to Test at the top
out ‘to be “angelic creatures|  who are instructed  to  suppress  lof the: 1,500 foot long Raymond|
whose mission  is  to  help]  the  auchenticity of their investi  “  7  et)  (Dam. It was gone at 4:15 am.
eae  ation.  “These flying saucer stories are getting more ridicue  Police; “reporters “and” resi
  one pibock Vesareh ee  lous every day.  dents saw the disk as it whisked
  The delegates were gen-|  yeen operative continuously {oF  ae  r  lover Wanaque and Ringwood
erally well groomed, articu-|  more than 20.  Years. The scope  both Wednesday and Thursday’
 late  men  and  women  who:  night.
could have blended into any|  carefully guarded subject  ‘The story of the mystic. sky]

heads of organizations whose | #continuous  status of  “Classified  |
members spotted and  photo-|!  tion  released by  the US.  Air
graphed  “unidentified  flying|  Force for publication is: periodic
objects” and claimed to main-|  reports of a few  selected cases
tain  telepathic  communica-|  of  uy  as  ;
 tion with space travelers.  E  |
  “In Search’ Of Flying Saucers:
  NEARLY ALL agreed that
what they called  the  “flying||,  Honest,  sincere  observers  no
  UFO sightings to  4  B  :
  i  longer report
Saucer movement”  was  UN-|  secepied authority.  (Why con  *
dergoing  sharp  expansion.|  tinue  to slap.  your own face?)  by police flying over the Wana+|
Two  delegates  announced)  For, several years  ac-ual sight  lque.
 they were negotiating to pur-|  ing# of spaceships
  are compiled  .  Se ema
 chase radio stations. to help) the: world. Amalgamated Flying  eee  Roberts’ theorized the object}
transmit their theories. Sev-|\ Saucer  Ciubs  of  Ameri  “might possibly have been. al
eral flying  saucer magazines
 and hundreds of books were| hensive information departneat  POLICE CONSTABLE Donald Cameron made out a report (Seaton of an ani-eravity
  ma
  SC.  maintain a  compre-
  ames  :

 ‘on sale at the convention.  that registers Club activities, sad  last night and  hoped the Chief Constable would hel  lchtine.””
  7  ontac-|/ Anyone can” write to AFSC
  reports
  ly
  from
  see six flying saucers.
  ail  over  the  world.  that  he really  DID  ix  fyi  ‘As  yet  nobody  really  seems|

 tee ae, ae re are  setae | 2008, N Hoover Street, Los An  Pc Cameron was at home on sick leave when he looked out  _|!9,kn0%, what the UFO
riel  Green,  a  serious  young|  £i¢, California
  was or
  90a27, US-A.  a window and saw six glowing objects hovering in the distance.  lit  is  a  balloon,  others,  men|
 man  whe
  Served
  as  president  out  port  ou  We  watched  them  for  about  30  econds  before  they  disappenred  at  speed  PB MATS
  towards Manchester.  |
Saucer  Clubs
  of  America
  We don’t need  to search for  ini  Pate  We  \t UFO has been sighted. over
  ying |"
  Flving  Saucers—we
  Saucers—  only. need
  veonly  ne  i
  Police Kept Busy  aterson
  Tan,  News
  15, 1966  sven though i jewmas  [the Wanaque.
  [Charles Capen,Some  18 years
  former  chief ago|
  en-
  Actually we are on one of the  jan.  15,  1966  Sci  day, They were white  |gineer of the North Jersey Dis

Flying Object | Sreiicees: Spotters Jam Up-County|  ssa,  ter Sul
  "  .  4
  strangest  UFO's in  the  universe  EioMOE  igger  than  (trict Water  Sup ly  Commission

Sighted in Wlinois | ocr" Etiligerant ‘attitude toward 6  ; ae ;
  NORMAL, m—a7)—ser-| etGee
eral persons  living  on  the|
  their conscientious effort

  Neither can“
  5%  eee  to  con
  Roads for UFO Glimpse  :  at  his  home  in’ Chile
  4  —.  _ RINGWOOD  —
same block here said they/
  If  the  little]them to  move on, but they
  | UFO spotted 5-16-66 men from outer space had the|coming back on the other side
  ke

saw  an  unidentified  flying |  _  PASADENA  (AP)—Scores  of]  up-county  police  on  the  runlof  the road,
  so we just  had  to
ohiest lass nian  startled residents called news-|  Tuesday, their earthly counter-|give a couple of them sum-  gk.  Road, according to Charles|
  ‘The object had four blink.  PaPers
  and police afteragin  ear  coe  nag oor eda nse  we Chief Constable thinks
  (Theodora.
  |""Dean Noll, assistant engineer,
Ing lights, red, white, blue  Moving ights in the skies wre  rongs of the curious ringed] scopes. I was waiting to seo one  for NIDWSC does not believe}
and green, proceeded north-  he san Gabriel Valley last}  0rmally deserted  —Wanaque|of them ‘get out with a geiger  <n  at  te FIO set ae. Dae  8
easterly,  “hovered  over  a  night  Reservoir in this small hamlet|counter.”  the sky, however ‘bad failed tol|TMySterious attempt to pollute
grove of trees, then returned  "Ofticers sald  some  residents}  8d created what  old  timers|  The  sky  watchers  were out||make @ return appearance Frijthe,  Water supply.  There  are
southwesterly.  The object  saw the lights “travel fast, then|  first traific jam inlin force after wide spread pub-||4ay-  poe
was seen first by the Merle  Siow, then stop.” They said eve  the borough. Theltication of the sighting of uni||  Since the sightings, Tuesday,|| ce suit
  iigneime sorte  of
Simpson family, then others.  Pasadena area resident report-|  CAFS parked  along Westbrook! dentified flying objects over the||both Wanaque and this boroughi| the reservoir
‘They said it was flat and|  ed the smell of perfume as the)  40 catch a glimpse
  Road and Route S11.
small.  lights appeared and moved.  Ringwood Police  tenant! reservoir. The elusive thing in||have
  television  cameras, newsmen| fer ih  recor a
  been overpopulated with/|y¢ the brilliant phantom that has,
  putin,  7  Jack O'Hara said  “We told(Continued on Page 2, Col. 7)||and the curious.  iaietber oe
  Civil Defense Director
  Watches ‘Flying Saucer’
  Handicap---Results  :  Se Crib une rat PM
  GOLDEN GATE  in  .  ETRO

  KSTAMLISHED  FEBRUARY  21,  1074  +  OAKLAND,  CALIFORNIA

  93rd YEAR, NO. 81  TUESDAY, MARCH 22, 1966  10¢ DAILY, $2.25 A MONTH

  87 Coeds  Binghamton, N. ¥,, October 24, 1968  ‘THE SUNDAY PRESS
  Eerie  1896  Sighting  Observe  NCOUNTER WITH A SPACE SHIP

  Beas apie ch
  mewenited  Unidentiied
  resis
  been hovering over Onkland for
  Sand  enteral, ff Object!  TKnow WhatI _—
  rrying “Objects (UFO') seen  the Lat Yew. nights,

  Seman  pw humeral pees  th  S. h  d C:
  ee  ee  lee  sate oat  ten
  Egg-s  ape  raf
  low aera calege ormilry|  "By KEITH GEORGE  vows ef
  a  ate  Newark Valley—Gary
  nila  Vo  Hor,
  aaa ae
  Wl dale|  oy. Wil
  is acox
  young mas
  eae
  asad each  dogged by rumors
  i the direction of Hay.  tate  |  tarm has gone bust
  |tndasited eet Sigh |  People’  say  his  dairy

  "Nit ony was te  ee
  |nigh"Sirge namber  wi  avait  os
  iad seeing ‘wered|  on the land,
  sty atin  saw the brillant  hrs  mec  in  on
  copes.  se
  Tight  and  the  huge  trdlke
  fag bed beard  Be
  Defyating
  nia.
  New York  ‘Cky.bowptal sa
  feng from sedation bu
  acquainted wth tach ober
  ond
  Set their stories ‘re. starting
  sto Une,

  if
  ath
  rection of the  Aibip, and op-

  if
  eriten
  Vise teks Yave Ute foot  Force

  that a ‘nicoesil archi har
  tn the minds. of thany_people  i
  eh,  of the Dearborn]
  ‘The handsome, 22-yearakd
  farmer says bose of these  fyge
  mba  wio  fad  been  invented sd navigating
  part was writen.  Down lly watching the heavens.  the eavena”
  Bane

  | ings  |
  Force’

  nek will work fromm. Se-
  tesige Air Force Base at Mount
  Clemens,  Mich,  the Air  Force
|  Tae 1,188
  Say  a
  * GALLUP POLL

| Than 5 Million People|/z22= 3
  aH  in

iSaw Flying Saucers :
  130 yards
  trom the 8a

  taal here wea be et
  ye a

  this awareness  score
  ts one ofy  ‘Futher analysis  ‘almost 20 yes  at bal  Le  Py  ge et
jy ote Gap Pall  ign are ot macenaiy Bh  saters were fie adn 3  bgristse dalpameerett
ly-|_Are flying saucer  laomenon of. certain. pepulatcn|out of ons cated te me  Apdircr ad rmendiag
  ror  hd  yey  thet men whe “y

  thee whe have aot gune bers  nother  ua]  led themselves as offl-

  se earn  ner lashed the  "rent
  on for pare sion aseen, om wer ae ‘At there te about the credibility
  the
  ol
  ofthe space  ‘believe there is} | 6° girls Sslted frm =  ier themnelven
ct fiw teat  bet  cf tn reper] at whe moat oe  repeat”  cies epee  sesine ot at
  any sclentifie authorities be.
  meer  site cone] Ygntora County (Calif)0 |S
  officers ret
  Wileerte ore noon som
  he teeing "wet eolanatin
  n believe (oer[pertons with college | trai  eane  the  tel ot
  yk tg aa a| ectaunt he ae Pres ieer|
  Blue, Bock.” the oft  SH
  |  vaaedons
  ra  pice  es  see  (Sule
  i ewe

  hee teal Ur ing ‘ei Fp  Two In County
  rope
  ab  some  out,  ie  en  cee ot)

  Ep oral  cot ot cae  ee,serea oe | Claim They Saw
  ze  ot || ees tare  not
  jain, persons
  with the most|
  ree  onae  ie  eli  ool"  | a,  wt  object was! | 4  Glowing’
  ing’ UFO
  in  cpermerta pe  ince oft |"ak that what makes tal  "Washensy Cont Ser
  THE SHEBOYGAN PRESS, Mendey,  Ape 18.966  | Sietsl mut  Pe eeNe oe  sip  shooting)
  Sheriff  Aides  .,2er id tested ta  |"Vae ery tus cad by gis  owmwart over he Pa Sos
  iten'benans ah sek

  Chase; UFOs; |"iepertge couny Deputy shee | ‘report
  ase  ed theoe objctect alternatel
  airyy | The investi iggalonation bebegan when ‘i :
  Ng aota 1dey
  Pe
  tale"
  "  tpn | atte rary  toe “deh
  ;  ad ete oa  I
  ti
  Were  ‘Close’  it Date paar
  au  Be aot  hs | Se

  ald  i  rose  up  and)
  by  "for
  Sie oe  ey
  ‘he  sightng  was  oly
  got  ecto  srl
  thers Michigan  and her
  aod  borzntal
  eee
  of  heaton
  ne
  during,  te

  ‘ny airplane, the ris aid |  “The eyewtoes_ accounts 9  [Pe
  1 abot
  he announcement that Hyoek|  Sunday sfen' ele! ica
  *  ‘man who  sald  he  and  his
  Spat sd te les
  orth of Ravens, sal be tet wre ve  ofthe
  Sse. |  i
  ste otto bjt tc a be  es  ie  nee  Se

  t5id nn ‘ot to releaseSR
  it Lara NL  .  ri |Seen  ‘shot away at their=eee approach.  ta cre
  fant  yard  bat’  the  Air  Force| snd  jt

  es  ie  Sens
