  Mrs. Levid. Dow
  Gonsionn, New Hempehive 03045
  Dear Mrs Dov
  Dow:_
  Your letter of August 31st, with enclosures,
  has been received and I appreciate the interest which prompted
  you to write.

  In response to your inquiry, this Bureau is
  strictly an investigative agency of the Federal Government
  and, as such, neither makes evaluations nor draws conclusions
  as to the character or integrity of any organization, publication
  or individual.  Iam sorry I cannot be of assistance to you;
  however, you may be sure your communication will be made a
  matter of record.

  Sincerely yours,

  Ba!

  2
  reg
  John Edgar Hoover
  Director  U ONIGVSY~-0,93u
3
  NY  So  “s
  NOTE: Bufiles contain no record of Kaew ep iy O4 or Amalgimatéd.
MAILED  COMM-FBI  Flying Saucer Clubs of America, Inc.

  ED:jeg (3)
  1IVO%  (as
  JAY
  Joe wi) 92 |)
  Ue  43g

99. HY 9s iI
  é  dig
  ®
TRUE COPY

  August 31,  1966

J.  E. Hoover, F.B.I. Director
Wash. D. C.

Dear Sir:

  I ama member of "Nicap"' and am very much
interested in U. F.O-(Flying Saucers)

  Several weeks ago a fellow employee received a
letter (business) from Arizona with a stamp on the back (see
enclosed)

  Being interested in U. F.O's I asked for the stamp
& sent $3.00 for the 12 issues of AFSCA.

  Having received & read my first issue I feel it isn't
just what it appears on the surface.  I can't say just why, but with
my limited idea of how communists operate it strikes me it is backed
by them.

  My reason for writing this is that I consider myself
a true American, I am told my ancestors go back to a Gr Gr Gr
Grandmother who was an Indian Squaw & I'm proud of it. If, by
writing for this AFSCA Report, my name could in anyway be aligned
with the communist party, I would like to know if there is any wayI  ~~
can get things straightened out.

  I may be all wrong about my interpretation of this
report but i'd like to be sure since I expect I will get the other issues
as they come up.  Rec 98  :  ye Y4  ’
  I will be 63 yrs old in a few days.  My husband passed
away 4-30-65 I have worked as Mgr of Reins Dept for the N. H. Ins
Co in Manchester N. H 44 years this month
  a  eed
Mrs.  Levi J. Dow  Very truly yours,
Goffstown  (Mrs) Florence C. Dow 4  sep 8 198
New Hampshire  03045

  ,  U
  7  ,  a  tT 31 \Qbe
  (

  Veay Suv:
  Sam o Anumhe o%Nie: Ip; oud can ROK Anuude
  Wwiloaalag wm U. 4&9 (Ilia Saueue )
  Dodd ureeee ow flowarea o> STL (fuesinuaa)
  [pao Ong awa aa  (ase surcleeed |)
 Sei  ee  ae
 {owe yo toauas of AFSC,

  oe
 uchat yem the 0a fr aceikron es
 sreh(isired% Mead ae  var of bchNt aut

 “Wy flLazm es ie7] va thet A tnaidacu m
 Ais We ute acted Wy
  l
  My aumerdlasee hto &
the Quwiican | cQ am
Va Yau So Ri 3 A F we Uso WwW MW drau &  A
im pueed fT. oY ay wring4h”wtlus AFSOA Reged
AVYNb end iy ame(ven he aces with Gk.
  Ot nek Sha Neen f aw te amr
sec segiok iy ON
  Fi
Ayrn oy be al ww Sent hyee.Sk Seok04NsWas lle
ind dd Mikole aun auiee & eypust oh voll
  &
Kairie Wyecatsthes
  Ay)  I]
  =>

  ote
al Sie  a  aes tw thon.H clue& wi Ay-
  Ses  /
  aecE;
  > thus Awol,
  Cw) 6+  Perorer,GW or  S
  a\ ‘S
  AFSCA's  62-83 394-449
  (Amalgamated Flying Saucer Clubs of America)

  3rd National

  FLYING  SAUCER
“c=  CONVENTION  om
* BOOKS
*

*
  EXHIBITS

  DLIPERATURE  CENTENNIAL
  At The Beautiful, New
  COLISEUM  (4590 S. Virginia St.)
  $2.00 cs aa
  LIL LT  Official  Journal  of the

  Reno; Nevada - July &,9,19, 1966,  Amalgamated Flying Saucer Clubs of America, Inc.
  Program: 10 A.M. to 11P.M.

  SPEAKERS ARE: Wayne S. Aho,  Carl A. Anderson,  Orfeo Angelucci,  Michael ''X'' Barton,
  Wesley Bateman, Marianne Francis, Dr. Daniel W. Fry, Calvin C. Girvin, Gabriel Green,
  Dr. George King, Hanno Mayberry, Howard Menger, Laura Mundo, Mel Noel, Sidney Padrick, |
  Chief Standing Horse, Dr. Frank E, Stranges, Mollie Thompson, Hope Troxell, George W.
  Van Tassel,  Hal Wilcox.

  HEAR:  Amazing experiences with spacecraft from other planets and their occupants by the
  greatest assembly of contactee-speakers since our Los Angeles convention in 1959
  at the Statler-Hilton.
  SEE:  Startling new photographic evidence ——the biggest collection of Flying Saucer photos
  on display in the history of the saucer movement.  Actual color movies and new still
  photos of Flying Saucers.
  MEET:  IN PERSON,  PEOPLE WHO HAVE HAD ACTUAL CONTACTS WITH SPACESHIPS  |
  AND THEIR CREWS FROM OTHER WORLDS.
  LEARN: About this important subject which is so vital to the welfare and survival of humanity {
  in cur times.  \
  ATTEND: AFSCA's 3rd National Convention. You'll be glad you did! Fill out the Advance
  Registration form below.  Do it Now!

  For Motel & Hotel room information,  write to:  The Greater Reno Chamber of Commerce
  P.O. Box 2109;  Reno,  Nevada

  AFSCA 3rd NATIONAL CONVENTION ADVANCE REGISTRATION FORM

  To:  AFSCA Headquarters;  2004 N. Hoover St., Los Angeles,  Calif.  90027.  Phone: 662-4404.

  Yes,  count me in!  I don't want to miss joining with you at this important convention
  and helping to support this vital movement.  Here is my $  .  Please send me

  PrPrPZOnsAr2amMZe
  Advance Reservation tickets ($5.00 for the 3 days, or $2.00 per day).  IMPORTANT:  [Tam
  also enclosing a stamped,  self-addressed envelope for the return of my tickets.  ADVANCE
  REGISTRATIONS must be received at AFSCA Headquarters no later than JUNE 30th!!!

  SPECIAL  AFSCA  THIRD  NATIONAL  FLYING  SAUCER  CONVENTION  ISSUE
  Name  Street

  City  State  Zip Code  ISSUENO. 24  JULY,1966  50c
  SPECIAL  AFSCA  CONVENTION  MESSAGE

BRIGHT WORLD IN HANDS OF SAUCER MOVEMENT  humanity.  FLYING  SAUCER  NEWS  IN __  BRIEF
  Make no mistake.  Your government is not in the
  This special message was  White House or the Congress.  IT IS IN THE PENTA-
  (Editor's Note:  NEW BOOKS NOW AVAILABLE FROM AFSCA:
received from Master Kalen-Li Retan (head of the  GON,  AND IN THE HEADQUARTERS OF THE VAST
  (Price includes 15¢ mailing charge. California  Saucers.  Brochures are l¢ each (this just about pays
planet Korendor, about 400 light years distant) on
  "DEFENSE'"-ORIENTED INDUSTRIES.  It is THEY,
  residents also add 47 sales tax.)  the postage to mail them to you).  Saucer post cards
May 4, 1966 via special directional short-wave radio
  not the President or the Congressmen,  who run the
  1.  COUNCIL OF SEVEN LIGHTS by George Van  are 50 for $1.00.
by Bob Renaud, the young electronic-technician whose
  United States.  The facade government is merely to
  allay undue alarm or suspicion of the people.  Tassel, now reprinted — $3.65.  WHEN WRITING AFSCA,  if you wish a personal
remarkable story we priptsd in issues #18, 19;,20)21,
  2. THE ADVENT OF THE COSMIC VIEWPOINT by  reply to a specific inquiry,  please enclose a stamped,
ani 22,  and which will be continued in our next issue.  Examine another aspect of the Asian war, the
  ECONOMIC side.  Do you recall that, in the stock  Bryant Reeve — $6.15.  self-addressed envelope.  No replies can otherwise
  Since Bob's initial radio contact in 1961,  he has
  3. FLYING SAUCERS THROUGH  THE AGES by Paul  be sent.  General information may be obtained via
talked with the crew of a spacecraft as he watched  reports just recently, the Dow-Jones average
  Thomas — $4.15.  our brochures and magazines. We are sorry that we
them on his special TV screen in his home — and  dropped sharply BECAUSE OF A RUMOR THAT
  4. OTHER TONGUES,  OTHER FLESH by George  cannot have a lengthy correspondence with all the
eventually met his contacts in-person;  visited their  NORTH VIETNAM HAD MADE A PEACE BID? Does
undersea and underground bases on our planet;  was  the staggering implication of this news evade you?  Hunt Williamson, now reprinted — $6.10.  hundreds of persons who would like us to do so,  but

taken aboard many of their spaceships;  and was  Stock prices suffering a heavy loss because of a  5.  SECRET OF THE ANDES by Brother Philip - $4,  unfortunately we have neither the time nor the staff
  6. FLYING SAUCERS AND THE THREE MEN by  for it — and our mail has been greatly increased in
actually allowed to pilot two of their small scout  rumor that peace might come to pass!
  Albert K. Bender — $4.15.  the last few months.
craft — one on a short solo flight.)  This thought is most distressing. Your economy
  7. FLYING SAUCERS -— SERIOUS BUSINESS by  SAUCER NEWS CLIPPINGS:  Your response has
  relies so heavily upon war and destruction, that if it
  Frank Edwards — $6.10.  been wonderful!  We've received so many clippings
  "Kalo (Hello),  friends.  We will get directly to  were to stop,  THE UNITED STATES ECONOMY
  8.  INCIDENT AT EXETER by John G.  Fuller -$6. 10.  from you helpful people that we simply hadn't enough
the point of our message to you.  Frankly, we are  WOULD SUFFER A MASSIVE DEPRESSION!  Your
  9.  THE HOLLOW EARTH by Dr. Raymond Bernard,  space to print all your individual names and cities.
appalled at the state of Earth at present.  Despite our  money system would collapse like a house of cards.
  now available again in soft cover for $3.15.  So we say a big and sincere THANKS to all of you.
constant warnings and even our actual intervention in  Millions would be unemployed, sick, hungry and
  Tremendous industrial complexes would  PAST CONVENTIONS & SAUCER ACTIVITIES:  , And please)jdo keep 'em coming!  (One reminder:
some instances,  the condition upon your planet grows  homeless,
  FEBRUARY 5,6, 1966: Dr. Frank E, Stranges’ 4th  please DON'T write on or near the clippings.)
-steadily worse.  close their doors.
  One subject on everyone's lips these days is  The utterly appalling fact is this: WARIS  Annual UFO Space and Science Convention was held at  WEDDING BELLS rang on Saturday, June 4, 1966
Vietnam.  Froma  little civil war, it has grown  PROFITABLE. Highly so! Every major conflict has  the Blarney Castle Inn Annex in Los Angeles.  for contactee Elary J.  Willsie and Sophia Martinez
steadily and inexorably into a full scale conflict  been accompanied by a strong peak in your monetary  JUNE 4,5,6, 1966: Dr. Daniel W. Fry's Man in  Olivares of Mexico City. The ceremony took place
between the world's three major powers: the United  prosperity.  Peace has usually been economically  Space Symposium took place at Dunsmuir, near Mt.  at Los Angeles, California. Among those present
States, the Soviet Union, and Communist China.  painful!  Shasta in Northern California.  were Sophia's parents and her younger sister, all of
  Many influential people have used the approach  After World War Il, the nation coasted for a while  JUNE 25, 26,27,  1966:  Buck Nelson's 10th Annual  Mexico City; Mrs. Maud Willsie, mother of the
of patriotism and love of God and Country to twist  upon the fat put on during the boom of the war years.  Spacecraft Convention was held at Buck's Mountain  groom; and your editor, who was also official photogdecent human feelings into dangerous channels of  In 1929, the bottom fell out. After the Korean War,  View Ranch; Route 1,  Box 236; Mountain View, Mo.  rapher for the occasion.  Mr. and Mrs. Willsie will
thought and action.  With their charges of treason and  in the 1950's came another recession.  What comes  BACK ISSUES of UFO INTERNATIONAL are now  live in Los Angeles.  Congratulations and best wishes,
sympathy with the enemy, they have aroused a good  after Vietnam? No one knows, and no one wants to  selling 11 issues for $3.00, while they last (issue  Elary and Sophia!
portion of the populace to a state of fear, distrust,  find out. The war in Vietnam is bringing an unheard-  #11 is now out of print).  There is much timeless and  MEL NOEL, former Air Force Lieutenant and
and hatred of those who seek peace and love.  Unfor-  of degree of affluence in the United States. Why kill  valuable information available in these magazines.  fighter pilot, is fast becoming very well known for his
tunately,  because some unconventional individuals  a good thing by ending the war? The philosopy, in  OUT OF PRINT:  1.  FLYING SAUCERS: TOP  lectures on his amazing experiences with Flying
have been associated with the peace movement,  that  essence, is this: It is economically expedient to send  SECRET by Major Donald E.  Keyhoe is now out of  Saucers while on active duty in the service.  He has
entire operation has been seriously hindered.  military forces to Vietnam and elsewhere in Asia in  print,  although it is listed in our new brochure.  been speaking to capacity crowds wherever he goes.
  Your government is a military puppet,  a mere  order to wage war, because in doing so, the United  (Some saucer books have occassionally gone out of  On Thursday, June 23,  1966, the personable Mr.
parrot of the monstrosity that is the Military-Indus-  States' economy is bolstered and maintained at a high  print without notice.)  Noel spoke to a standing-room only crowd at the
trial complex.  Your senators, except for a few, are  level of prosperity; human life is secondary to the  2.  BACK ISSUES #6 and 11 are now out of print.  We  Aeronautical Sciences Building on Beverly Blvd. in
robots,  speaking what they are told to say.  preservation of economic well-being!  still have only a few copies left of #9 which we have  West Los Angeles.  We hear that he is booked to
  Your President is, unfortunately, a pawn of  It is thus evident that, unless a drastic change is  priced at $1.00 each in an effort to preserve them for  speak at 57 colleges across the nation!  Recently he
their needs and demands.  We have contacted him  made in the structure of your economy, war will  serious researchers and collectors.  Please do not  appeared on the Louis Lomax TV Show, and has been
several times concerning the state of affairs, and he  never end because the Military-Industrial complex  order these items,  or any other materials which we  heard on many radio shows.  He leaves shortly for
has said that he could do nothing to change them, for  WON'T LET IT!  do not advertise.  Mexico City, where he has been invited by an official
if he were to speak out against the Asian conflict, he  Many of you fear Communism.  Where did that  PRICE CHANGE:  The price has gone up on two  government group to speak.  He has been promised
would be removed.  This is what happened to the late  fear come from, I ask you?  From within yourself?  of the better known books in the saucer field,  which  some interesting experiences by a local contactee
Mr. Kennedy who, in his great humanitarianism, was  NO! It was brainwashed into you by the Military-  we must now order from England:  1.  THE SKY  there, and we look forward to hearing his report on
reluctant to sacrifice his ideals and his visions for  Industrial complex. Who controls all your news  PEOPLE by Brinsley le Poer Trench,  was $4.65.  his return! Good work, Mel, and good luck!
the sake of the Military Industrial octopus.  He paid  media? The government and the advertisers. Who,  It is now $5.10,  postpaid.  2.  ROAD IN THE SKY by  SID PADRICK;  contactee from Watsonville,

the supreme penalty for his efforts in behalf of  then, is in a position to dictate what shall be printed?  George Hunt Williamson, was $4.15.  It is now $5.10,  Calif., who spent two hours aboard a space craft,
  postpaid. California residents please add 47 tax.  was recently in Los Angeles when he was guest

  FLYING SAUCERS INTERNATIONAL
  "UFOI" ISSUE #23 CORRECTIONS: Page 4, line  speaker at the regular monthly meeting of the Ingle-
  3:  the date should be April 24, 1964, instead of  wood Unit of Understanding on Saturday, June 25,
  ISSUE NO. 24  Official Journal  of the  JULY, 1966  1965.  On page 4, line 1 of the 7th paragraph, insert  1966.  Meetings are held on the 4th Saturday of every
  "later, via telepathy" after ''They told him ---.!"'  month at the Inglewood Business and Professional

  Amalgamated Flying Saucer Clubs of America, Inc.  note:
  SEATTLE,  WASHINGTON area residents please
  AFSCA Unit #25 meets every 4th Friday at the
  Woman's Club; 820 Java St., Inglewood, at 8:00 P.M.
  Donation is $1.00. Information: Mrs. Roberta T.
  International Headquarters: 2004 N. Hoover St., Los Angeles,, Calif. 90027,U.S.A.  Seattle Public Library, Room 325 at 7:30 P.M.,  Forrester, Program Chairman; P.O. Box 146;
  Dedicated to
  under the capable direction of Mr. Leverett G.  Inglewood, Calif. 90306. Phone: 677-5214. Also,
 GABRIEL GREEN, Editor  Tallman.  The meeting is free, and all who are  Mr. and Mrs. Lee Yates.  Phone: 293-4743.
 HELEN GREEN, Asst. Ed.  The Physical, Spiritual, and Economic Emancipation of Man  A Non-profit  Organization
  interested in the Flying Saucer subject are invited to  NEW AFSCA UNITS:
 FLYING SAUCERS INTERNATIONAL (6 issues-$3.00.  notice will be enclosed in the last issue for which you  come to listen and to participate in the discussion.  45.  AFSCA Unit #45;  Everett,  Washington;
 Membership-$1.00) is published quarterly. Copyright  have paid.  New subscriptions will start with the last  ZIP CODES ARE IMPORTANT:  If the address  Ray and Jean Sebring, Co-Directors;
 © 1965 by Amalgamated Flying Saucer Clubs of  issue published, unless a specific starting issue num-  label on this magazine does not have your zip code  1032 S.W. 126th St.; Seattle, Wash. 98146.
America. All rights reserved. The information  ber is requested. When writing to AFSCA for a reply,  number on it, please notify us as to what your num-  46.  AFSCA Unit #46;  Ben Blazs,  Director;
presented in ''Flying Saucers International" does not  enclose a stamped self-addressed envelope. Not  ber is.  If you don't know your number, call your  3057 Electric; Lincoln Park, Mich. 48146.
necessarily represent the views of AFSCA.  The num-  responsible for magazines lost in the mail due to sub-  local Post Office and then let us know.
  Thanks!  Several other new AFSCA Units have been formed
ber after your name on the address label indicates the  scribers' failure to inform us of their current address-  AFSCA BROCHURES AND SAUCER-PHOTO  and will be listed in the next issue (#25). Persons
issue with which your subscription expires. Subscrip-  es. Prices subject to change. Payment must accompa-  POST CARDS, sent to friends and acquaintances,  are  interested in forming AFSCA Units in their cities
tion renewals will start where the previous one ended,  ny order. Send cash, check or money order to: AFSCA;  a good way to help spread the word about Flying  should contact AFSCA Headquarters for information.
and will be acknowledged only by the new number after  2004 North Hoover St.; Los Angeles, California 90027.
your name on future issues.  A ''Time to Renew'"'  Phone:  662-4404.  2  15
  The Military-Industrial complex, by opinion-control  We are able to increase our height while on
  through the use of psycho-politics (brainwashing by  Earth through a technical process related to telepor-
  FLYING  SAUCER  NEWS  IN  BRIEF  controlled news management).  tation.  It is concerned with recording the atomic and
  Consider this: In order to survive,  a commer-  molecular structures of our bodies, and then repro-
  cial medium, such as a newspaper or magazine,  ducing them identically on a larger scale.  Differ-
  COMING 1966 FLYING SAUCER CONVENTIONS  walking around the premises,  left his blessing on the
  requires a vast amount of advertising revenue.  The  ences in our internal structure are adjusted by the
  Aetherius Society and its work.  For further inform-
  mere subscription fees will not cover the costs.  computer which controls the reproducer.
  JULY 8,9,10:  AFSCA's 3rd National Convention,  ation call 465-9652, or write to the above address.
  Thus, they depend for their continued existence upon  Our most common skin color is a little darker
Centennial Coliseum, Reno, Nev. (See details on back)  DELLA LARSON, who for over a decade was the
  money paid by advertisers. Suppose, then, that the  than yours, although we have skin colors which vary
  JULY 15,16,17: WAYNE AHO sponsors the  guiding light and main instigator of Flying Saucer
  meetings and activities in the San Francisco Bay  editor of a certain newspaper decides that he is  as yours do all over the Earth.  Usually,  however,
Northwest's 5th Annual Interplanetary Age Conven-  we would look ''tan'' to you.  We are NOT green, blue,
  Area, passed away on October 25, 1965.  opposed to the Vietnam policy, and says so in his
tion.  Lectures,  exhibits and New Age topics.  Ad-  She was
  paper. The advertisers simply say to the editor,  or heliotrope, as has been suggested!
  _
vance registrations — $1.00 per day for adults, 50¢  70 years old.  She will be remembered for her
  energetic and enthusiastic dedication to the goals of  "Fither you toe the mark and print what we want, or  Concerning our language, we generally use one
for students.  Write to: Mrs. Lorena Vogt; 815 N.E.  of two tongues and we are fairly familiar with a third.
  the Flying Saucer cause,  as well as for the highly
  we'll withdraw our advertising."
 110th; Seattle, Wash.  Phone: Emerson 3-0956.
  Such pressures are a fact of life. The newsmen  On Korendor itself we speak the native language,
  AUGUST 6 thru 14th: DR. NEVA DELL  successful annual Northern California Space Craft
  are torn between their higher devotion to Truth, and  Korendian.  It is similar in many ways to your own
HUNTER'S 12th Annual Quimby Conference of Trans-  Conventions which she organized for nine years.
  also to the lower level of their physical needs.  languages since it, like yours, was originally derived
lation.  Lectures and discussions on New Age Topics,  (Della, we salute you!)
  Rather than jeopardize their security and their  from Galingua, one of the two universal tongues.
including the stars, science and metaphysics. In  MAX MILLER, former publisher of the now-
  futures they, of course, submit meekly to power.  The other is Solex Mal, which is more familiar to
lovely scenic country at a beautiful, modern motor-  defunct ''Saucers'' magazine,  and author of 'Flying
  Their actions are fully understandable, and we do not  you, since it is used by your local Solar System
hotel. $2.50 per day, attendance. Information from:  Saucers: Fact or Fiction"! (now out of print),  has a
  planets. It is seldom heard now in our sector of
  hold them responsible.
Quimby Center; P.O, Box 453; Alamogordo, N. M.  new role.  He is now editor-publisher of 'Real'' mag-
  We throw the blame directly on the Military-  space, as Galingua has replaced it almost completely.
  AUGUST 19, 20,21: SPACE RESEARCH, Inc.'s  azine which may be found on the newstands for 50¢.
  Industrial complex which, by its underhanded dealing,  Unlike your own, however, the Korendian-
Second Annual Convention,  at the North Branch  The August '66 issue devotes about half of its space to
  threats of
  force, and economic pressure and retali-  Galinguan speech is very rhythmic, and has few
YMCA in Spokane,  Washington.  Scenic location near  the Flying Saucer subject and will be well worth your  i
the Spokane River.  Indoor and outdoor convention  investigation.  7  ation, has crushed the spirit of American journalism
  and turned it from a dynamic motivating force in
  sibilant sounds, such as "'s'' or ''z''. Some of the
  sharper sounds like ''c"' and "'k"' are minimized. It is
activities.  For information,  write to:  Space  WiLBUR MILLER,  one of the early researchers
  American life into  a weak-willed,  subservient  a beautiful language which is very musical and
Research Inc., No. 6815 Julia, Spokane, Wash.  in the Flying Saucer Movement,  passed away on
  mouthpiece for the power-masters. We blame them  pleasant to hear.
  OCTOBER 22,23: GEORGE VAN TASSEL'S 13th  March 5,  1966.  He was known for his fine channel
  for the death of journalistic freedom and individuality!  Perhaps you would be surprised to learn that
Annual Spacecraft Convention at Giant Rock,  Calif.  in  contacts with several Space Beings, including Monaka
  One more comment on this topic: May I say that  ancient Latin was liberally taken from Galingua.
the desert 17 miles north of Yucca Valley.  Bring  of Mars. He also was the co-author — with his wife,
  a better economic system is already known to the  There are many similarities in the two languages.
your own camping equipment and enjoy the outing.  Evelyn — of the book 'We of the New Dimension."
  leaders of the Flying Saucer Movement. It is the  Even modern English has roots on other worlds!
  OCTOBER 29,30:  10th ANNUAL NORTHERN  Although he was a native of Missouri he had,  in
  system known as Universal Economics. As we have  In concluding my message to you, may I say —
CALIFORNIA SPACECRAFT CONVENTION, Clare-  recent years, been a resident of Los Angeles and of
  said over and over before, it is the non-money  people of Earth: open up your minds and your hearts
mont Hotel, Berkeley, Calif. Info: Angela Kilsby;  Morongo Valley, Calif.  (Good journey, Will!)
  economic system which MUST be applied on your  to the world around you.  There is so much to be
1265 Montgomery Blvd.; San Francisco, Calif.94127.  HOPE TROXELL, founder of the School of
  planet before you can start to resolve most of your  learned, so much to be discovered.  Don't waste
  OUR NEW NAME: Our magazine, formerly  Thought, now situated in Independence, Calif. (P.O.
  major problems and thus begin to establish a highly-  precious hours and days in bigotry and ignorance,
called ''UFO International",  has now become ''Flying  Box 458), reported recently that the neighboring
  advanced, non-destructive state of existance on  and in senseless fighting and killing. To do so is
Saucers International",  which we feel to be a more  towns of Bishop and Lone Pine had partial blackouts
  Earth, such as we of more advanced planets have  truly a crime against nature and humanity.
appropriate title,  since Flying Saucers are no longer  during an evening channel (teltpathic) session she was
  enjoyed for solong. INVESTIGATE THIS SYSTEM  At this stage where you have the very stars
Unidentified Flying Objects as far as we are concern-  having with the Space Brothers.  The lights in Inde-
  to evaluate it for its merit — then ACT to apply it!  almost in your grasp, how irrational and barbaric it
ed.  Flying Saucers have become a serious issue  pendence went out completely for several minutes by
  YOUR VERY SURVIVAL AS A CIVILIZATION MAY  is to spend futile hours warring with your brothers.
with thinking people all over the world.  We believe  a gradual fade-out,  and then came on again in the
  DEPEND UPON IT!  As an old saying on your world puts it: ''As you make
that most of the objects which have been sighted have  same manner.  During this time, the Space Being
  Perhaps this is an opportune time to clarify a  your bed, so shall you lie in it.'' The decision does
been of extraterrestrial origin, controlled by intelli-  speaking through Hope said to those present: ''Be not
  few questions which have been asked about us.  not seem difficult. Here are the alternatives: A
gent beings who, in form, are very much like us.  afraid.  We are guardians of the race.  Protection
  Do we of Korendor work with the local planets  world living in harmony, justice, security and abun-
Therefore, we hope you will understand our reasons  will be given to those in the area."'
  in our operations? Yes, we do cooperate with them  dance for all, or a world continuing to reap the
for changing titles,  and that you will continue to  HAL WILCOX made a fine guest appearance on
  a great deal. However, our work on Earth is  bloody harvests that grow from the seeds of hatred
enjoy reading our publication under its new banner.  the Joe Pyne TV Show, April 30,  1966.  Hal passed
  relatively independent of the local planets. We have  and mistrust. If left to their own devices, the
  DR. RAYMOND BERNARD, founder of the  the lie-detector test with flying colors and conducted
  many times overstepped what is considered to be the  majority of mankind will forge onward to a destiny of
Biosophical Society of Santa Caterina, Brazil, passed  himself with dignity and fortitude,  which isn't always
  limit of interference upheld by Venus, Mars, and  destruction and annihilation, oblivious to the danger
away on Sept. 10, 1965.  He was the author of ''The  easy on the Joe Pyne Show.  During the test, Hal
  other planets. This has caused a good deal of debate  in their actions.  They are short-sighted;  they care
Hollow Earth" and several other books concerned  stated that he had taken a saucer ride to visit the
  {  between them and us. Each time we have pointed out  little for the future.
with the hollow earth theory.  second planet from the star, Alpha Centauri.
  that we of Korendor are basically pragmatic in nature.  It is you New Age people,  dedicated to the wel-
  MARIA ELLIOTT, contactee, psychic and  M.I.N.D. stands for Mental Investigations of
  Although we do respect the laws of self-destiny, we  fare of all mankind, and having the vision and underfounder of Maria Creative Womanhood Foundation,  New Dimensions, an organization recently formed by
  feel also that where stepping in is required to prevent  standing of the ways to build the better world of
was a recent guest on the Bob Grant Radio Show, and  Wesley and JoNell Bateman. Their activities include
  disaster, it is our right and our duty to do so.  tomorrow, who must lead the way.  You have the
the Pamela Mason TV Show. Glamorous Maria now  meetings, courses and public appearances.  They
  We have interfered in such places as the United  future in YOUR hands, if you will but shoulder your
has her own program every Tuesday afternoon at  have demonstrated on several occassions for groups
  States, China, Russia, and on a large scale in  responsibilities.  The Flying Saucer Movement, as
2:30 p.m. on KTYM radio. She may be seen in  of up to 20 people, their ability to telepathically
  Vietnam.  This has caused no end of consternation in  you call it, belongs to you.  Support it in every way
person every Wed. evening at Holland House Restau-  direct the movements of visable spacecraft overhead.
  the local Tribunal of Planets. We are sympathetic to  possible.  Help it to grow until it is influential
rant,  8:00 p.m.  in the downstairs meeting room.  Write: M.IL.N.D.; 4916 Franklin Ave.; Hollywood,
  their viewpoint, but we do feel that their policy is  thoughout your world.  Go out into the world and
An interesting program may be heard on New Age  California 90027. Phone: 661-1731.
  limited in its capacity to achieve the desired goals.  guide the misguided, find the lost, and recover the
Topics, and free readings are given. For more  HELEN & GABRIEL GREEN contributed their
  It is our opinion that one cannot stand on the sidelines  strays. We are behind you all the way. As we have
information about Maria's appearances, classes,  bit to the education of nearly 300,000 young people to
  ¢  and achieve any noticeable results.  said many times before, we will take two steps for
etc., phone 657-1631, or write:  Dr. Maria Elliott;  the saucer subject at the Teen-Age Fair, April 1 thru
  As I have said before, we have infiltrated your  every one that you take to help yourselves.
1543 Sunset Plaza Drive; Los Angeles, Calif. 90069.  10 at the Hollywood Palladium, where AFSCA hada
  planet. We are directly involved in Earth's life.  The time has come for nations to ''bury the
  DR.  GEORGE KING,  founder of the Aetherius  booth to exhibit saucer photos, show slides, and to
  You might say that you have been invaded — a strong  hatchet", to clasp hands, and plunge into the future
Society, was host at the official opening of the  disseminate information. We handed out over 13,000
  way of phrasing it, to be sure, but nonetheless  together — in co-operation toward mutual goals.
Society's new headquarters at 6202 Afton Place; Los  brochures and saucer photo post cards, and talked
  factual, since we walk and work amongst you daily!  Look to the heavens and realize that your destiny
Angeles, Calif. 90028; on March 5, 1966. After the  ourselves hoarse answering questions for 12 hours
  We have been asked about our physical appear-  is not in bleak atomic desolation, but in the magnifiprogram Dr. King personally escorted us around the  each day.  Gabriel also made over a dozen radio and
  TV appearances and interviews during the Fair.  ance. We are humanoid, indistinguishable from  cent greatness that you can achieve if you will but
attractive quarters. He also reported that a high
Space Being in physical form had visited there  We also had another booth at the National
  yourselves, except that in our natural form we aver-  work for it.  Choose the right path and you will soon

recently for an hour and fifteen minutes and, after  Aviation and Aerospace Exhibition at the Pan Pacific  age three to four feet in height. Every other dimen-  qualify to join with us in our journeys amongst the
  Auditorium, May 17 thru 22. Yes, we've been busy!  sion is proportionately scaled, so that photographs of  stars.
14  us would not reveal our origin in any way.  Va i Luce (Go in Light)."  Kalen-LiRetan  3
  vy)  THE WALL STREET JOURNAL  The spokesman quickly adds: ‘“‘We have nei-
  Ménday, December 13, 1965  ther received nor discovered any evidence that  London, Ontar  Free Press  -26-6  1 Hong Kong China Mail’

  100 Watch UFO  Flying
  proves the existence of intraspace mobility or
  extraterrestrial life and we continue to extend
  New ‘Fireball’ Raises  an open invitation to anyone who feels he pos-
  sesses any evidence of such vehicles operating

  An Old Question: Do  in our atmosphere.” And he states: ‘‘No UFO
  report evaluated by the Air  Force  has  ever
  Disc-Like Object Hovers,. Rises  saucers
  Flying Saucers Exist?
  given ary indication of a threat to our national
  security.”

  For Two Hours East of Kettle Point
  mystery
  The Air. Force’s approach  disturbs  some
  *
  people, however. ‘‘The Air Force should admit.
  Californian, Who “Talks’ to Men  there are natural phenomena taking place un-  By JIM ETHERINGTON  UFO sightings were received
  der our noses of which we know nothing,’’ says  Free Press Sarnia Bureau  Saturday night  as  far north  2-3-66
  From the Stars, Says ‘Yes’;  I. M. Levitt, director of Fels Planetarium at the  SARNIA — A  revolving ob-  as the tip of the ‘“‘Thumb”’ in  EOPLEin North Queens-
  Scientists  Assail  Air  Force  Franklin Institute in Philadelphia. He adds:
  ject, sighted in the sky east
  “The Air Force is trying to explain something
  Lake Huron.  land are mystified by.
  of Kettle Point last night, was
  that isn’t susceptible to explanation.”  watched for more than two
  Odd lights were reported in  three separate reports of
  By ELLIOT CARLSON  Robert Risser, director of the Oklahoma Sci-  hours by about 100 persons.
  the sky over Oakland County  Flying Saucers.
  ence and Art Foundation planetarium at Okla-  and the neighboring Detroit
  Staff Reporter of  THE WALL STREET JouURNAL
  homa City, believes ‘‘the Air Force must have
  Lawrence Bressette, who op-  area. Others were reported  ce first report came from a
  They’se back. The latest was sighted a few
  had  its  star-finder  upside  down  during  Aug-
  erates a store on the Kettle  westward in the Lansing area.  aicreorsi banana grower, Mr
  | nights ago by residents and pilots in the north-  edley, who while driving a
  ern tier of states and Canada. They described  ust,’?  when several reparts of flying saucers
  were ascribed by the Air Force to sightings of
  Point Indian Reserve, said a
  motorist brought the object*to
  Dr. J. Allen Hynek of North-
  western University,  scientific
  Sane through a neighbouring
  property.on his way to his own
  farm, heard a loud mniscing noise
  it as an orange fireball. "The Air Force'at first  his attention about 8 p.m. He
  called it an unidentified flying object, but now  stars. ‘The constellations of Taurus and Orion  consultant  to the U.S.  Air
  said he looked at it through
  weren’t visible at the time the Air Force said  Forte said phenomena seen  above the noise of the tractor.
  thinks it was a meteor. Some  other people  binoculars and could see red,
  the sightings were made. I think they made an  at Dexter and Hillsdale on the
  called it a flying saucer. ;  blue,  green  and white  lights  Suddenly. about  25  yards
  error.””  night  of  March  20 probably
  Several people say they saw the fireball] land  flashing from the disc-shaped  ahead of him, a blue-grey saucer
  were  the  result  of | swamp
  ‘|  Thursday night. An 11-year-old boy in Lorain,  The whole problem, says J. Allen Hyntek,  object.  shaped craft about 25 ft across,
  Ohio, says he watched it drop into the woods  chairman of the department of astronomy at  Mr. Bressette  said  it  re--
  gases,
  and 9ft high, rose vertically to
  near his home.  A woman in Elyria, Ohio, 10  Northwestern  University and  a consultant to  Sheriff Douglas Harvey of  about 60ft and travelling at a.
  mained motionless for about  terrific speed headed
  ed off in &
  miles away, claims she saw it plunge into a  the Air Force,  is that the matter should be  Washtenaw County and civil
  an hour flashing lights, then  ‘pouth-westerly direction.
  vacant lot across the street from her home.  studied more thoroughly.  .  defence director William Van
  slowly began to rise. Cloud
  Others say they saw it streak into Lake Michi-  “Pressures
  to conformity in academic cir-  Horn of Hillsdale County criti-  On investigation, a nest
  cover rolled in about 10 p.m.,  of flattened reeds was found,
  gan.  Scientists and police combed  a 75-acre  cles  and  fear  of  ridicule  have  slowed  the  eized.  Dr.  Hynek’s~  report.
  allowing  only periodic sight-  the circle being about 30ft
  area near Pittsburgh after a woman there saw  study,’’ according to Robert Hall, a sociology  Van Horn said the swamp gas
  ings.  explanation  was  an  attempt
  in diameter and since then
  the object crash to earth ‘‘smoldering.’’.  professor at the University of Illinois in Chi-
  “T’ve  never  seen  anything  four other nests have been
  , Despite these witnesses and search efforts,  to ‘explain it away arbitrar-
  cago.
  like  this,”  he  said.  ‘We  all  found close by, some of theii
  however, the thing has yet to be found.  “The ypossibility of life on Mars  is  an un-  ily.”  newly made.  —
  In this
  saw it. It was low — about 200 |
  regard, it is like all other unidentified flying
  objects,  or UFOs, which are mysterious be-
  popular  thing  to  consider
  Frank B. Salisbury, a professor of plant phy-
  these  days,”  says
  or 300 feet off the ground to  Flying Saucers  During: the last eight months,
  than seven  different|
  no__less thar
  Gain Proponent
  the east. Then it slowly began
  j.cause they are seen but never found.  siology  at Colorado State University. At the  sightings of Flying Saucers have
  to move up.”
  ‘Whatever it turns out to be—meteor, satel-  risk of being unpopular, Mr. Salisbury told the  been reported  in the North:
  Htepart, hoax, weather oddity or man from  fifth annual Space Conference. this year ‘that  Mr. Bressette said it could  N.Y. Daily News Dispatch  Queensland press.
  not  have been  swamp  gas
  Mars-it appeared ina banner year Yor: such  “there  may  be  some natural  explanation of  _ NEW YORK — The nephew of  Hundreds. of sightseers- have
  objects, which almost disappeared from public  these things, but a tentative possibility to .be  which was suggested was the  the late Dag Hammarskjold  flocked to the Horseshoe Lagoon
  H

  cause of unidentified ‘flying
  consciousness following & rash of. reports’ of  considered is ‘that UFOs are spaceships from  ‘has startled America’s top  in the Tully District during the’
  flying saucers in the mid-1950s: ‘‘We’ve had  object sightings in the Detroit  last few days to view the circles
  ars.”  science writers by telling them
  ‘| mére reports this year-than in’any year since  Fueling the flying-saucer controversy has  ayea last week.
  he believes \that' flying saucers
  which  are  partly  hidden  by
  :| 1957, when we had more than a thousand,” says  been the large number of reports from what  “T’ve seen swamp gas lights.  ‘ dense scrub.
  exist and that they come from
  a spokesman -for Project Blue Book, the Air  many people  ider  reliable wit:  —pilots  This was not the same,” he  The RAAF has taken the
  —‘hasn’t  outer space.
  ‘| Force program set up in 1948 to evaluate re-  with technical backgrounds. Since 1947, more  ‘said. “Besides there  reports seriously enough to
  been any swamp gas  lights  Knut  Hammarskjold,  whose  ask for clippings from  the
  ports of the phenomena.  than 100 private, military and commercial pilots
  have reported spotting strange objects in the  around here since before the \flate uncle was secretary gener-  nests  which - will _ be
  Visitors From Outer Space  \|al of the United Nations, spoke  examined, and any further
  sky, according to one study.  war.”  re
  Nobody knows what the objects are or where  flying saucer sightings from
  Pinning down such reports is difficult, how-  \Mr. Bressette said his breth-
  to a convention here of the avi-
  |  they come from, but there is no-lack of theories  the area will be investigated.
  ever. ‘‘Some of the boys did report things they  er, Jeffery, also reported see-  ation-space  writers  associa-
  —or of controversy. The Amalgamated Flying
  couldn't  identify  a  few  years  ago,’’  says\a  ing an object over Sarnia. This  tion.
  Saucer Clubs of America, Inc., is sure the
  spokesman for American Airlines. '‘‘ButTM our  one stayed stationary for a  Hammarskjold also suggested
  .| “saucers” come from outer space.  How do
  they  know?  The’  pilots haven’t made a report for years.”  short  time  then  shot  across  that our space neighbors are
  “‘space  people’  have  told
  them.  Nevertheless, ‘‘we have on file a great num-  the sky at a very high speed.  becoming more and more inter-
  Not  only  that,  says  Gabriel  Green,  who  ber of reports from pilots who don’t want their  An officer’in control opera-  ested in what people are doing
  heads the California group, ‘‘space people give  names  used  but  still  want  to  tell  somebody  tions at Selfridge Air Force  on earth.
  contactees  information  about  life  on  other  what they’ve seen, claims J. B. Hartanft, Jr.,  Base, Mount Clemens, Mich.,  “The possible existence of
  Planets and solutions to insurmountable prob-  president of the Aircraft Owners and Pilots As- |.  said the Canadian  sighting  reighbors in space will, if con- ~
  was the fourth reported to  firmed, create problems of le-
  Los AngeHenlaesidinee O94.
  }lems on our planet.”” One suggestion allegedly  sociation, And he says: “I haven't drawn any
  made to Mr. Green in 1960 by a visit from Al-  conclusions myself, but I think we’ve certainly  him last night.  ©The other  zal,  political and technical. }%
  pha Centauri, ‘a nearby star: Run for Presi-  got.a.good mystery on our hands.’’  three were fromthe Detroit  characteristics, * he said.
  area,  ;
  [| UNWatch For Saucers Urged
  \
  dent as a write-in candidate. (He campaigned
  lefly, then decided not to run.)  He  said no  radar reports}
  The  National Investigations Committee on  had been obtained on any of
  Aerial
  UNITED NATIONS, N.Y.,  er space is sending flying
  Phenomena  (NICAP),  a  private  re-  the sightings.
  search  organization
  Feb. 7 (AP)—Colman Von-  saucers regularly  on  test
  in  Washington,  doesn’t  Mr, .Bressette  reported jet
  keviczky, an employe in the  flights to earth.  ,
  hold with that theory. ‘We reject reports of  ‘planes  in  the  area  at  one
  noble beings landing on earth to solve all our
  U.N. Office of Public Infor-  He told Thant only the  |
  point while the group watched
  mation, proposed to Secre-  United Nations.could be ex-
  problems,” says a spokesman. So men from  along the Lake Huron shore.
  tary-General U Thant today  pected to have sufficient
  Mars are a lot of bunk? Not necessarily, says  But there was no possibility
  that members of the United  authority to establish: con-
  the committee. It believes q Congressional in-  the object he saw was a  jet.
  Nations establish a network  tact or represent mankind
  vestigation would prove that UFOs  “are real  In Michigan new reports of
  physical objects. . . under the control of living  to observe flying saucers.  in  a. face-to-face meeting
  beings.”” As an afterthought, the ‘spokesman  Vonkeviezky,  who ,says  be  extraterrestrial  _visi-

  OBIJECT
  says: ‘‘There are a tremendous umber of ego-  he believes someone in out-
  maniacs who have been able to appoint them-
  selves experts in this field because it’s so con-
  fused.”’
  One man who’s not confused at all is Charles
  STRANGE
  OVER MT.WILSON
  .A. Maney, professor emeritus of physics. and
  mathematics at Defiance, College in Ohio. Says
  the professor:  ‘‘These objects are  ion-
  ably from outer space.” He bases his reason- |'  | A-2  Los Angeles Herald-Examiner  8x  Thursday,
  April 21, 1966.
  ing on the fact that the objects often interfere
  There was something Over] | there picked up “no unusu-
  with local electrical circuits, indicating to him
  ‘Mount Wilson early today but al activity” during the peri-
  they have ‘‘a means of propulsion associated
  it didn’t catch the entire city od.
  with magnetic fields.”
  napping.  :  An Air Force spokesman
  “There’s Nothing To It’  Police  and  newspaper  at Vandenberg said the Air
  Such notions are scoffed at by astronomers, ||  switchboards were flooded  Force’s  “Project  Blue
  Hiswevey?  “All this is imagination outside the |}  with calls describing the
  realier
  Book” office in Washington
  of science,” says Donald H. Menzel, di-  | object variously as a “puff,”  was investigating.
  rector of the observatory at Harvard. “I have  a “greenish ball,” a “flat  An. observer at Mather
  examined Air Force cases and discovered ‘that |  oval green object with a  Air Force Base near Sacra-
  UFOs all have simple explanations in terms |  long tail and a light at the  mentotheorized that the ob
  of well-known natural phenomena. THere’s not}!  end.”  ject may have been gas res
  .
  one cause, but hundreds. Some are quite spec-  It was first sighted about  idue left from Nevada
  |!
  tacular, such as reflections from ice crystals or  4 a.m. and remained in view  missile firings which re-
  bright  stars,  searchlights on  clouds or high-  for about half an hour.  flected light.
  flying spider webs. But to some people the exis-  A ‘similar fireball was  Sgt.  David  Tellotson,  of
  tence of flying saucers is a matter of religious  sighted about the same  Hollywood division; said the
NEW SAUCER PHOTOS:  These remarkable photos of Flying Saucers were taken by Dr. Daniel W.  Fry,  fanaticism,” he says.  | time from Sacramento and  object here appeared to be
  from Vanderberg Air Force  over Griffith Park. “It was a
President of Understanding, Inc., of P.O. Box 76, Merlin, Oregon 97532. Your editor enlarged them  But Mr. Menzel réads more into the Air
  Force data than does the Air Force itself. Of  Base, it was reported.  bright green splotch, elonfrom the original 16mm color movie film. Spots on the photos are due to the extreme enlargement of  the 9,786 UFO reports made to the Air Force  Vandenberg reported no  sta and not blinking,” he
  since 1947, 673 remain claSsified as i‘‘unidenti-  launches  during  the  i
scratches and dust spots on the film.  Of special interest is the fact that the same type of craft was
  fied,’ a spokesman says. He defines this cate-  4-18-66
  —
  preceding 24 hours which  The only solid fact emergphotographed near Merlin,  Oregon in  a wooded section,  and again near Joshua Tree,  Calif. on the desert.  gory as  containing sightings whose pertinent  ‘Report Them... Forget li—  might account for the phe-  ing: A lot of people.are up at
  data can’t be correlated with any known object  nomenon  and  said radar  4 am,
  or phenomena.  I Have Enough Credibility-Problems As It Is’
FLYING SAUCERS ARE
  REAL!
  ‘WTIONAL FORM NO. 10  210-108
  MAY 1962 EDITION

  UNITED staTe@overnmenr
  GSA GEN.  REG. NO.  27

  Memorandum
  DIRECTOR, FBI  :  10/3/66

a  :  SAC, LOS ANGELES (100-241}2-0/)

5 a  a  FLYING SAUCERS  INTERNATIONAL,
  OFFICIAL JOURNAL OF THE
  AMALGAMATED FLYING SAUCER
  CLUBS OF AMERICA, INC.
  IS - MISCELLANEOUS

  The Philadelphia Division by letter dated 9/22/66,
  furnished the Los Angeles Division with Issue No. 24 datea “©”  ’
  July, 1966, entitle  YING SAUCERS INTERNATIONAL", which is
  the official journal  of tie Amalgamated Flying Saucer Clubs
  of America,  Inc.  The  Philadelphia Division received  the
  magazine from Mr. JARVIS  HCOOPER,  IRS, 401 North Broad Street,
  Philadelphia, Pennsylvania on 9/19/66.  Mr. COOPER stated he
  subscribed  to the  magazine  because  his  son had exhibited an
  interest in flying saucers and  outer space.  He  said that  on
  pages 2 and 3 of Issue No.  24 was an article which he believed
  expounded the Communist Party  (CP)  line.

  For the pj olay  ae of the Bureau, the International
  Headquarters  of  thi  igamated Flying Saucer Clubs  of America,
  Inc.  “located at\ 2004 North Hoover Street, Los Angeles,
  California.  The article,  on pages 2 and 3,  were allegedly  YY
  ~writtén
  by Master KALEN-LI  RETAN,  Head  of the  pl.  KORENDOR,
  which was receiyed on 5/4/66 by special directional short-wave
  radio by BOB RENAUD.
  Uo  re

  The indiees of the Los Angeles Division contain no
  information identifiable with RENAUD, and no investigation has
  ever been conducted  on captioned organization. BENG, Bishi  pe Re

  No further action is  contemplated in this matter
  by the Los Angeles Office, UACB.  \\  REC.g  72964  Ud |

  The  foregoing is  furnished  to the Bureau for
  information.

  JST: gcew
  (3)
  6

ee
o2 3—
  BSF
  October 17, 1966
  450

  Mr. Paul L Wright
  1331 Lucile Avenue, Southwest
  Atlanta, Georgia  30310

  Dear Mr. Wright:

  Your letter of October 9th has been received.

  With respect to your inquiry, matters pertaining to
  sightings of Unidentified Flying Objects or‘Flying Saucers are not
  within the jurisdiction of the FBI.

  Inasmuch as your communication is of interest to
  another governmental agency, I am referring a copy of it to the
  Director of Special Investigations, The Inspector General, De-
  sof  Air Force, Washington, D. C. 20333.

  OCT 17 1966  Sincerely yours,
  COMM.FR}  =~  J. Edgar Hoover
  IO  ra ae a

  NOTE:  We have had one outgoing to correspondent dated 3/10/66 in
  response to his letter regarding the TV program, "The FBI."" A
  copy of his letter is being sent by form to the Department of the Air
  Force.

  DFC:rlf (3)  I  yx
  WEY  pee
  133% Asucitle
  Atlanta, “Wa.
  Oct.  9,1966

  the  Director
  reau of Investigation
United States
Dept.  of  Justice  sa  a

Washington,D.0.20535

  twenty years the United
  having see ato in the
  U.F.O. or “lying CS Saucers”
  3
  being done about it,as
  s  3  —
  it

  maintained that the
  s,light, weather,etc.
  of the people that
  idering  if  the
Air Force isn't lying.
  I'm not the only one wondering
for the people that Il have talked to
that after the Michigan sig
others they would not report it
  U.F.0..
Forse 3f they did see aeven
  Reports say thatF.B.1. Agents have
seen U.F.0.'s and this has been denied by
the Air Force.
  The report recently about the phlice
officer in Ohio or Penn. having serious
family Brouble as well as being ridiculed
  ting, along with
by naw because of his sighU.F
a fellow police officer,of a  .0.
  I* see’ by this that the farth: in our
Air Force is begitming ® ib; line Soe thy ;
  may be 6 RECG
 is so then we posi  ours es” at
 the terrible  tion,as did Nazt German
 in the  1930's.
  :  I wish to og XS
  AES
  ents» have se
 any U,F.O's
  eee
  ore (ull Ww) hl.
RNL
  R aR

12 OCT 20 1966

——,  ae
  OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10  |
  .  roI0-1a4

  .  ‘UNITED  STATES GO)  NMENT

  Memorandum
  TO  DIRECTOR, FBI  pare:  10/19/66

cigar
  SUBJECT:  UNIDENTIFIED FLYING/ OBJE JI
  s-X

  Re Bureau Bulletins No, 57 dated 10/1/47,  and No.
  38 dated 3/25/49, entitled "FLYING DIScs,"

  Enclosed are copies of an article entitled "Armed
  Forces  -  Focus on UFO", which was published in the This World
  supplement  of the  San  Francisco Examiner & Chronicle,  Sunday,
  October 16,  1966,

  This  article  deals  with  the  current  controversy over
  the  existence  or  nonexistence  of  flying  saucers  or  Unidentified
  n  ebieety  (UFOs),  and quotes Michigan's Congression
  rt.  ALD FORD as suggesting that Conggress look
  ces  that  the  Air  Force, wh1ich  is
  ;  UFOs,  has  commissioned  the  Univer-
  wsics Professor EDWARD U  oNDON to
  conduct an in-dept 1 study of flying  s4utérs for’  the next 18
  months,  at an  estimated cost  of $300,q00.  :
  wives
  FY of  COLORADO
  article also points out  that since  Iast  summer
  u  en  mounting  for  the  es  lishment  of  an  inde-  |
  t,  civilian  controlled  investigative  agency  to  look  into
  the  UFO problem,

  Also,  for  the  Bureau's  sneered  ees  there was  re-
  cently published (caret printin;  6) a book entitled
  "Flying Saucers -  Serious Business", “Lyle Stuart, Inc.,
  publishers, authored by Frank Edwards.  This book is now in
  its  third  edition  and  is  available  in paperback,  published
  by Bantam  Books,  and  it  is  probably a  contributing  factor  to
  the  current  controversy;

  In  this  book  author! Edwards  points  that  flying
  saucers were observed in  thé) spring of 1946,  in  Seandinavia
  and Russia  (which he points out is about a year from the date
  \ of the testing of the  Alamago:  atomic bomb),  and the book

  (V3) Bureau ea a3yENCLOS  PREC 53  /LA-§ 369 uf YS]
  }  I - Denver  (Encl, 1)
it  1 - San Francisco
  oo  Ly  3  ocr 21 1966
  5)  EX-114  es
  5
genset ch 1290

  “Mg TIBLNE ROY
  Q.938
SF 62-2927
DET:1ms

documents  many reports  throughout  the  world  of  UFOs  since  that
date,  and claims that 1965 was the year of the greatest number
of UFO sightings and that these were observed by multiple witnesses,  It is author Edwards! contention that UFOs are space
vehicles  sent  to  observe  activities  on  earth  and  the  Air  Force,
which  is  charged  with  the  responsibility  of  investigating  UFOs,
has  deliberately withheld  information and  given misleading
explanations because  it  fears a mass panic  by the public  if
the  public  were  told  the  truth.

  The  book  describes  UFOs  as  polished metal  objects,
radiating heat and light  (sufficient to have burned witnesses
who were too near),  and emitting some force field that interferes with electromagnetic instruments and power sources,
Colors range from brilliant white to dull reds and brilliant
orange.  Some objects have carried blinking lights.  There are
three basic shapes: 1) zeppelin-shaped ships up to 300 feet
long; 2) disk-shaped objects ranging from a few feet in diameter to  100  feet,  with many reported at about  30 feet diameter;
and 3)  egg-shaped objects, which according to the author are
the  ones  most  recently  sighted.

  According to the book, the objects move silently and
attain fantastic speeds, yet can hover motionless in mid-air;
they have been reported to land and to take off with great
speed, usually with a burst of light from the underside, which
in  some  cases  has  left  the ground beneath  them scorched.

  Many of the persons named in  the book who have  reported them are reliable individuals,  including law enforcement  officers,  military personnel  on  official  duty,  military
pilots,  commercial airline pilots,  civilian defense officials,
etc.  A  number of photographs  of the  objects  have been  reproduced in the book, some reportedly taken by reputable persons.
Many reported sightings are from atomic and missile researc!
areas,

  Wreckage of crashed saucers has been reportedly recovered on at least three occasions, in one case deseribed as
a magnesium alloy, in another as pure magnesium, and in a third
case, attributed to an official of the Canadian government, the
material was described as an exceptionally hard unknown metal,
actually a matrix of magnesium orthosilicate which contained
thousands of 15-micron metal spheres throughout, and showing
evidence of micro-meteorites on its surface.
  t  predictior
 1  UFOs  1  "overt landing" or
deliberat  é

  A  copy  of  I  8  g  dire  to  Denver,
in view of the contrac  warded to Dr, EDWARD U,  CONDON.

in view o ra t he press peeey of mounting pressure for ¢ pivitdan
  ne  above  is  being  called  Bureau's  ntion

controlled  investigative  C  idle  UFO  matters.
  e@ In suburban -Detroit,.a
  é
  ameter, 18 inches high. It be-
  man saw a noiseless, wing-
  gan to spin and Hutchinson
  ARMED FORCES  less, cigar-shaped flying ob-  * grabbed it. He was carrying
  ject.  :  it to the police, who de-
  Focus on UFO  e In Bryan, Texas, resi-  scribed him as “level-headed
  Winking, blinking and nod-  ‘dents said they heard a  and God-fearing,’’ when the
  ding — red lights  star-like object purr.  thing twisted out of his hands
  over Pasa-
  dena,  blue  lights  @ Over Valdese, N.C., a  and got away.
  over
  Greensboro,  silVer  cigars  “glowing blue thing” explod-  And in Warminster, Eng-
  over  Detroit  —  people  kept  ed, then lit up the town like a  land,  a city council worker
  seeing strange flying objects,  giant flashbulb.  said he saw  a  silvery cigar
  and officials kept saying  Sometimes  the  alleged  shape drifting over the vil-
  nothing was out there.  lage downs. After a time, he
  over  into
  ce ship full  s  it  seemed  to stretch.
  But  in recent years, and
  dly landed  Then  it  seemed to divide
  pa  war];  ce last sum-
  : Hopkins-  amidships with a flash of or-
  mer, the  e  had  been
  y  he little  ange light, although  there
  mounting £  ther a full-
  men glowed,  and they were  was no noise.
  scale  Congr  onal  in  ti-
  gation  or  for  the  establish-
  described as ‘‘three feet tall,  Flaming Object
  ment  with  eyes  like  saucers  and
  of
  an independent, ci-
  claws.”  Not all the sightings could
  n-controlled investigato-
  be easily written off as the
  agency.  Nebraska
  phantasmagoria  of  kooks,
  ivited  into  a
  eranks and drunks. And, un-
  space ship  where he chatted
  ‘lying Objects.  Jess one subscribed to a theo-
  with four men and two wom-
  The sightings had come in  ry of mass hallucination, it
  en. They spoke only broken
  bunches, the bulk of them  was difficult to explain away
  English—but fluent High
  last spring and summer. And  ultaneous sightings con-
  German which, as it hap-
  the reports had come from  firmed by many rational wit-
  pened, was the grain buyer’s
  all over,  nesses — such as the flaming
  native tongue.
  object that was seen last
  “Like Neon Lamps”
  Silvery Cigar  April by  thousands  of East
  Among the most intriguing  Coast residents from Wash-
  Nor did America have any
  items in this year’s crop:  ington to Boston and even
  corner on the UFO market.
  temporarily disrupted a ball
  @ At Milan, Michigan, 15  In Northern  Ireland, Tom
  game between the Chicago
  miles south of Ann Arbor,  Hutchinson saw a saucer
  drop into a peat bog near his  White Sox and the Wash-
  bluish- yellow bars of light
  home in Moneymore. It was  ington  Senators in Wash-
  were spotted, looking “like
  ington, D. C.
  neon lamps dangling in the  eggshaped, tlnee feet in di-
  sky.”  Or the incident in Hills-
  © In East Delhi, Mich., a
  15-year-old boy called in to  dale, Michigan last March, in
  report seeing lights in the  which a Civil] Defense Direc-
  sky alternately standing still  tor, an assistant dean, and 87
  id  moving,  sometimes  coeds reported that they had
  ng on and off.  seen a glowing object zip
  e@  Jn  Altadena  and
  past their college dormitory
  San
  Marino, Calif., police switch-  and hover in a swamp for
  boards logged dozens of calls  hours. Witnesses said they
  after a pair of red lights in  watched from the second
  the sky were reported by  floor of the Hillsdale College
  residents.  girls dormitory as the object
  wobbled, wavered, glowed
  © In Toledo, Ohio, officials
  eerily and once zipped right
  at the local airport received
  at a dormitory window be-
  seven calls from persons who
  fore stopping suddenly.
  said they saw a glowing ob-
  UPI  Televhoto
  ject that was red, green and  A Meteor?
  white,  DR, CONDON  The Air Force, charged
  Saucer-watcher  with investigating every one

  day, October
This World, Sunday,  October 16, 1966  =  oe
  ‘b <-§357  Se|
S. F. Sunday Examiner & Chronicie  ENCLOSURE
  é
of the 11,000 sightings since
  ‘No Threat’  you details,” he complained.
  7,  did  have  some  ex-
  “If they  did,  many of their
planations. “The  mysterious  The  main _  conclusions
  explanations would fall flat.”
flaming object in the East  reached  by the Air Force
was “probably a meteor.”  were:  And Keyhoe  could also
  claim a powerful ally in
  As for Michigan’s much-  @  “No  unidentified  flying
publicized and plentiful  objects  reported, investigatunidentified flying objects,  ed and evaluated by the  Air
  gan’s Gerald Ford, the
they  turned  se  Republican  leader,
  out  to  be  Force have ever given a
  v  ed it would be “a
  instead of  dication of a threat  to  o'
  “Unidentified
  ome thing”? for
  national security.”
  laying pranks  to look into uniden-
  e  “There has been no ev-
  ying objects. Such an
  YWdence submitted to or discov-  Ford suggest-
  ered by the  Air Force that  ake the Ameri-
  from
a  distingu  astronomer  sightings represent techno-  can people  “feel better.””
  led  y  Air Force to  logical develop
  Sindy in Depth
investigate the  Hillsdale af-
  Whether or not
fair.  that  was so,

  ihe  Air Force last week took
  Every report of a “flying
  to make itself
saucer” had ostensibly been  been no evi-
  Fed up with inehecked out by the  Ai  dence  th.  ‘ings catego-
  reports  of  glow-
Force’s special squad known  as unidentified are exas “Project Blue Book,” al-
  ing. zooming, wink-
  traterrestrial vehicles.”
though the staff was  woefully
  awesome,  blinking,
  Major  Donald  Keyhoe,  ing,  hovering  things,
small. Of the 10,1  ghtings
since  1947,  the  Air  Force  however, was  unconvinced,  ir Force last week deinsisted that only 646 remain  oe, USMC (re-  ed to bail itself out of all
  responsibility  for  future  con-
  explained —  and most of  i  he Nation-
  al Investigations Committee  sions concerning UFOs.
these because of insufficient
information. The others have  on Aerial Phenomena (NI-
  The  Air Force announced
been  attributed  to  planes,  rivate space watchballoons,  astronomical  ition, accused the  that it had commissioned the
causes, missiles, swamp gas,  ir Force of conducting a  University of  Colorado  to
meteors, fireworks and, in  -term whitewash on the  conduct an “in-depth” study
some cases, to hallucinations  of flying saucers for the next
and psychological reasons.  18 months. The director of
  It was Keyhoe’s theory
  Ball Lightning?  the st  (expected to cost
  that the Air Force was with-  $300,000)
  Philip Klass,  avionics edi-  would  be  Dr. Ed-
  holding information for fear
  ward U. Condon, former ditor of Aviation Week & Space  of causing public panic.
  rector of the National Bureau
Technology  magazine,  ed the Major,
recently proposed some other  of Standards, and now a
  who had never seen on
  physics professor  at Colora-
  of ext  al ori
  do.  :
explanations. Klass, an  Force feared th:
  To satisfy the skeptics, and
electronics engineer, said a

  PS
  9  insure the study’s objectiviform of “ball lightning,’’ gen-
  ty, Colorado would select
erated by high tension power
  several  other  universities
lines, could explain the phe-  to
  take part in the independent
nomena.
  investigation, with about 100
  Many of the sightings, said  scientists participating,
Klass, occurred along or very
  And in case that wasn’t
near high-tension lines where
  enough, the National Acadeluminous balls of ionized air
  my of  Sciences
could be generated under  also  agreed
  to appoint a panel to review
certain conditions.  public could not accept this
  the Colorado report.  e
  knowledge. “They won’t give
  OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10  >  5010-106
  sori  ce

  UNITED STATES GC®  ERNMENT  :

  Memorandum
  Mr. Wick  DATE:  10-24-66

SUBJECT soba
  FREE-LANCE WRITER
  4811 ILLINOIS AVENUE, NORTHWEST.
  WASHINGTON, D.C.

  On October 21,  1966, captioned individual telephonically
  contacted the Bureau and spoke with SA Thomas B. Coll of the Crime
  Research Section.  a

  He advised that he is a free-lance writer and is working
  on a story for a TV production concerning unidentified flying objects.
  He stated that he has been in personal contact with a former Air Force
  officer who uses thealias of Mi  oel concerning unidentified flying
  objects and thatit is the TV producer's  intention to use this individual
  in the forthcoming TV show.  He advised that Noel is not the individual's
  true name and inquired as to whether the FBI could advise him of Noel's
  real identity.

  Moss was advised that the FBI could not be of any
  assistance to him and that all information in FBI files is confidential.
  He was also advised that the investigation of unidentified flying objects  /
  is not, and never has been, a matter within the investigative jurisdiction
  of the FBI,

  Bufiles contain no information which can be identified
  with Moss.  4, 5 6
  RECOMMENDATION:  REE by  52-5  \  fear
  ee
  For record purposes. _ We(a  0
  aa oct 25 1966
  LU

  1- Mr, DeLoach  ye /) vi
  1- Mr, Wic  KAY
  UA
  {t

  70O£T 31 1966
  MOIM 0-334

  ede
qo ASE| 2 196  gg, Wd 2t S 12190
  “AIO TVBLNE WEE
  0.93%
  Mr, J.  4A¢ Hennessey
  10 Manson Place
  South Kensington
  London, 8. W. 7, England

  Dear Mr, Hennessey: 4
  I have received your letter of 0 vember 26th.
  In response to your inquiry, the policy of this
  Bureau regarding the investigation of Unidentified Flying Objects
  has not changed since I wrote to you on January 26, 1965. Also,
  it is contrary to my long-standing policy to express an opinion on
  such matters.

  Since my prior communication to you has been
  destroyed, I am enclosing another for your files and trust this
  wili be of help to you in reconstructing your records.
FBI

  Sincerely yours,
COMM.

  er

  Enclosure

  1 - London - Enclosure
  1 - Foreign Liaison Unit - Enclosure

  NOTE:  Bufiles disclose one prior letter from correspondent and

  ty \v  ae
  a reply, made to him 1-26-65.

  Brun AN tb  A  f
  (5)  wats -
  YA  YD
  ASSOGINTE MEMBER OF THE AMERICA  ITUTE
  10  MANSON  PLACE
  | OF AERONAUTICS & ASTRONAUTICS
  OFF QUEENSGATE
¢  MEMBER OF THE NATIONAL INVESTIGATIONS
  SOUTH  KENSINGTON
\  COMMITTEE ON AERIAL PHENOMENA
  LONDON, S.W.7

  $
  Tevernone;  KENsincTon  4200

  November,  4OCE

  Hoover,

  ureau of  Investigation,

  wrote  to  ou  and
  why.
  agents

  of you Bureau  investigated  reported

  nidentified  odjects  and  »¥

  their  findings  was  available.  You replied

  agents  investigated  t  se  cases

  any Federal  law  had  been

  jings  were
  confidentiz

  Since  receiving your  lett  placed  in  my

  records,  many  of my records  includin  letter  were

  destroyed  recently  in  a  fire  would

  therefore  erateful  if,  for  the  purnoses

  records,  nfirm your letter of 1964/5
  is  still  the  same.

  REC- 62 =  GA.  TS
  In  addition,  I  would  be  pleased  to  learn  what  your

  Fa
  unidentified  fly  objects.  If  you

  appreciate  that

  l NCLOST TRA
eabmere,

  \

  ¢
  £
  a

 5
 f

  3
  >
  :  Bufiles reflect  t  an unidentified flying object was sighted
  Socorro, New Mexico,  on April 24,  1964.  Captain Holder, United
  Force, along with  SA  D. Arthur Byrnes, Jr., interviewed
  ie Zamora of the Socorro Police Department who had observed
  nomena.  SA Byrr  typed such a statement from Zamora which
 as later included in a memo  for dissemination. The Albuquerque
Office did not conduct any investigation other than to keep the Bureau
advised and maintain liaison with the Air Force. This is apparently
the situation to which the correspondent is referring. Bufiles contain
no information identifiable with the correspondent.
  e

  December 21, 1966

  (>a)

  <7
  Me
  / 1 \0%te, Joe Thorn
  .
ZL

  em  Chief of Police
  Princeton, West Virginia 24740  |

  My dear Chief:

  Your letter was received on Dec
  ember 19th,

  Although I appreciate the motives
  prompting you to
  write me, unidentified flying obje
  cts do not  come within the scope
  of this Bureau's authority, Iam,
  however, referring a copy of your
  letter to the Director of Special Inve
  stigations, The Inspector Gen-
  eral, Department of the Air Force,
  Washington, D. C., whose
  agen cy has conducted related studies,

  Sincerely yours,
  @. Edgar Hoover

  1 - Pittsburgh - Enclosure
  - Attention SAC: Correspondent
  is not identifiable in Bureau indices
  ,
  NOTE: Copy of incoming sent to OST by form,
  DCLisep  (4)

  Ay?

  DY  SN
  December 27, 1966

  SX
Miss Judith Goodman
12 Williams Street
Bradford, Pennsylvania  16701

Dear Miss Goodman:

  I have received your letter of December 20th.

  Although I would like to be of assistance, matters
pertaining to Unidentified Flying Objects are not within the jurisdiction of the FBI.

  Inasmuch as your communication is of interest
to another governmental agency, I am referring a copy of it to
the Director of Special Investigations, The Inspector General,
Department of the Air Force, Washington, D. C. 20333.

  Sincerely yours,

  0.  Edear  Hoover

NOTE:  Bufiles contain no record of correspondent.  A copy of
her letter was sent to the Department of the Air Force by form
referral this date.

BGH:gda (3)
  an

  ha
  .  TOLSON  —  =

  OFFICE  OF  DIRECTOR  ORCCALE  ae

  FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGA’ Wyn  \ woes
UNIVED STATES DEPARTMENT OF #@STICE  wa
  .  CASPER

  .  CALLAHAN

  (December 23, 1966)  CONRAD SS eee
  -  FELT  ——

  Judith Goodman  . CALE —
  . ROSEN —
  12 Williams St.
  SULLIVAN
  Bradford, Pa. 16701  MR.  TAVEL  ——

  AUCarLS  |.  —
  TROTTER

Mr. J. Edgar Hoover  ees e
4936  30th Place  Miss HOLMES
Washington, D.C.  Mans. METCALF
  MISS  GANDY

Dear Mr. Hoover,

  Iam doing my Science Fair project on
U.F.O.s. Could you please send me any and
all imformation you have on this subject?
 would also appreciate any imformation you
may have as to how many planes we have lost es
chasing U. F.O.s. Why has this imformation
 een kept a secret? Why is it important to
national defense ?

  Also would you happen to know if any other
  sides ourself have spotted U. F.O.s in

  Judith Goodman.  _

  ce ewes eam
  Ree 48a ee 29 1968!
  WIIM 0-934

  I¢4
99 HY 2s Q)  £7 93
  Mr G. &daqan Aeover
  YA 3b 3go* V0 ow.
  a.

  LO ae  menvens WO C

  <<  one  A SOAK Qa Yr2- kat
  2  OK

  Lows aa U.P Ds WO i"va Veo
  ee
  DT  5 pian Ake Lo ay to a  nh Vere  OE Ue A ove
  Ge WwW ou dud eyNe  oheas M eens df
  aa A. Pea hy a incaBest poly
  ne Dia Sn feat Ne  Shane op seal
  ry h  ldo Db:  CLAS  A Sis aN WWW —~
C
Q 4
A

  K€ )
  4
 Wed  92 G 22 23g
  I@d
YOL93uiG  - Q3A1393y
  0-20 (Rev. 1-26-66)  Tolson A,
  |]  eLoach
  a
  Casper
  Callahan
  Conrad
  Felt
  Gale
  V Roshi

  Tél
  Trotter
  Tele. Room
  Holmes
  Gandy

  UPI-133

  wr JAN 20 1967

\  WASHINGTON CAPITAL NEWS SERVIC Eeweme:  __  —

  79 JAN 23 1967
  @
  Mr. DeLoach
  Mr. Gale
  Liaison Section
  Mr. McAndrews

  o Rare,  January 18, 1967

  ALLEGEDLY SIGHTING, JANUARY 17, 1967 phet
  "UNIDENTIFIED FLYING OBJECT
  *w “aa”fe  yp

  /  The  ¢
  At 4:10 a.m., January 18, 1967, James 7 Collins,
212 Sharon Drive, Chesapeake, Virginia, telephone "547-4648,
advised that he desired to report that he had observed a large
oblong-shaped object which alighted in the street  in front
of him when he was on his way home from his television repair
shop,  the Oak Grove T. ¥., 6424.  Great Bridge Road,  Chesapeake,
Virginia.  He believes that he was taken into this craft which
he recalls as being made of a glass like substance and being
transparent.  It was manned by several individuals who appeared
to be  undersized creatures similar  to members of  the human
race,  probably not more than 4 feet tall.  They were allegedly
wearing regular trouser pants and T-Shirts.  Collins believes
that he was transported by this craft for an undetermined
distance and returned to his point of take-off approximately
one hour later.

  Collins spoke in a coherent manner although he
appeared to be under certain emotional strain.  He claimed
he had not  been drinking any intoxicants but he was unable
to account  for the time between 8:00 p.m. and 4:00 a.m.. He
stated he was telephoning from his workshOp)but had no recollection
of being elsewhere between 8:90 p.m. and 4:00 a.m.

  The above is being furnished for your information.

NOTE:  Collins  furnished  information  to  night  supervisor  SA
  OK
A.  R.  Ware,  Special  Investigative Division.  A check of Bureau
indices did not disclose any  information which could be identified
with Collins.  ,  9  ¢
  acl  GA-  17.  as)
  This document contains neither
  A f
  recommendations nor conclusions of
  Th
  the FBI.  It is the property of
  A
  ed to your agency,

  m9 JAN 20 1967
  ~ absolutely manipulated-=your Lie detector tests. dap be,
  - spositively controlled without’ your knowledge.’

  i,  hearing by sdund\'or word, sight
  ad. |} ision  blocks of intensity of clax.
  dnt) control of’ ¢}  direction itself,  Any ph;
  in  be  ,  Mental and  conversation:
  ; can be  created  at any time.  ~ Ustalily weet public
  embarrassment ‘to that person.  Naturally mat}  we kel Pn
_  °° typing,  ‘book keéping ‘can\be'manipulated to thé extremes:
  K  ‘ustration or nervous or. mental collapse.  Sexual
  lax can be made to most-atly  individual  anywhere or
  anytime.  xy  Pay  ie  #3  ales,  con

  SS)
  of kind
  random,

  n  trv  rental trailors,  autos, etc.)  Mm  t
  nt is from out of state,  particularly  California,
  alileyby  non-tourists who are here for reas.
  nd) who’ .d  for  ‘Texas plates

  dive review of my duiving record;  particularly
  believe most aré prendditated,  alisince 1941
  d\  Geol  muchiin the Navy) while ‘at wat,”
  ‘lL  -appointments
  of Some members of)  th
Clear carbon with the valid s
  'y  for fraiming purposes
  and  in court’ will bi
 ig 6xpe.

fety,  and many other ueason
  made publi:  TI believe it hi
  ja  select
  fen  4

  suspect that most  if not afd’National Congressmen’ |
  now Of  the method and havejused it for perso
  n  aye
4-22 (Rev.  1-22-60)  tee
  “ Federal Bureau @f Investigation
  Records “@

  Néme Searching Unit - Room 6527
  (2) Secvise Unit - Room 6524
  Fofward to File Revie;
  ae Attention aaa  z  a
  to.  i
  Supervisor  Room  Ext.
Type of Reférentes Requested:
  @qular Request (Analytical Search)  ;
  All References (Subversive & Nonsubversive),
  Subversive References Only
  [
  "}Nonsubversive References Only
  Main __________. References Only

Type of Search Requested:
  Restricted to Locality of
  [JB xact Name Only (On the Nose)
  [1] Buildup,  Variations
  &

  ee

Subject ER Raa sarell  a
Birthdate  @Plece
Addregs  a
  Ps

Localities  —_
Fda ty ho cian Mia Tae
  ee
  :  archer

Prod.
  FILE NUMBER  SERIAL

  TUK
  | Maen
 WE  Basitisy)

  Pepper

ate
OPTIONAL. FORM NO.  fan  s010-107~02
MAY {982 EDITION  Pi  *  nat

  (10549871)  RUC)

  Vine Lon ed are 3. copies of iq. (b) (7)(D)
 (b) (7)(D)  letter dated 4/27/67, craibt ae in SECRET):
 oontents,  nar ELAN EOS Yee  pang
  é Bureau fey desire to: fuckin  eOpy.
  L ster to. Minlah Bde for. infoxmat fon RUS EOE.

  opeBuneaeany(eae
  (sent3nae
  Aaa ;

  iu N . SIE Savings Bonds Regularlyon the Payroll Sioa Plan
ag Cerzexpondence to.
  must be under double cover.
  ‘The outer snvelopé shoul  be addressed to:  _-  ;
  “<., ¥.  2  Tae Seorppany, Box 500, ParviAMENT STREET
  “Vand viot to any individual,.  Ses  ert

  “01-930 6789: Ext,

  E050x1 STATE:
  E050x6 STATE

  iicchian a: ta ar
  ‘Dotaraao to
  to hivestigate
sive  References Only
 A  References Only
  e & Nonsubyersive
  sive References Only  “
  nsubversive Reference
  —|Main —  -Referentes Oni
  earch Requested: *
[-“JRestricted to  Locality of  —
 =  JExact Name Only (On the Nose)"
  Bull  Vatidtions -
  a  Bane,

  ieclassified  Case:
  OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10

  D, 65a remn (41 crn) 101-116  @
  MAY 1982 EDITION

  UNITED STATES  yERNMENT

  Memorandum
  DIRECTOR,  FBI

  SAC,  MIAMI  (62-0-11328
  )

SUBJECT:  PAUL L,  PEYERL  ———<——__-—-——~,
  INFORMATION CONCERNING

  A  review of  the  Miami  indices  revealed  information
  reflecting subject  appeared  at  the  Miami  Office on  July  24,
  1959,  and  uiunteered  to  return  to  Austria  as  an  intelligence
  agent.  His  expressed motivation was  to  do  something  to  repay
  the  debt  he  felt  he  owed  the  United  States.  He  was  afforded
  the Washington, D, C. Headquarters address of the Central
  Intelligence Agency and told his inquiry should be directed
  tere,

  Also,  on  July 4, 1961, he  appeared at the Miami
  Office  and  gave  an  incoherent story  of recently meeting an
  individual  who  asked  him  to  kill  his  mother,  PEYERL  appeared
  to  be  somewhat  bewildered and  continuously  gazed  away  from  the
  interviewing Agent.

  During  his  most  recent  visit  to  the  Miami  Office,
  PEYERL seemed  genuinely  concerned  about  the  existence  }
  of  the  object  he  allegedly  photographed  during November,  1944,
  He  exhibited  no  emotional  nor  mental  disorder  and  appeared  to
  be  rational,

  In view of recent publicity afforded UFO sightings,
  some  apparently by responsible sources, this information
  is submitted  to the Bureau  for  consideration  of  transmittal
  to the U. S.  Air Force,

  vi Dy gl  G  RN

  © od hee
  ee
  cen e
  ce

  14 JUN £21624
  @. Bureau (Hnc,. sy
  - Miami  )
  LB/bab  g§ v
  (3)  q

  Buy U.S. Savings Bonds Regularly on the Payroll Savings Plan
  10-108-01
  UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

  FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

In Reply, Please Refer to
File No. 62-0-11328  Miami,  Florida
  June  8,  1967

  RE;  PAUL
  INFORMATION CONCERNING

  eu  Ae vA

  On  ril  26,  1967,  PAUL L,  PEYERL, 1430 Southwest
  76th  Street,  ami,  Florida,  appeared  at  the  Miami  Office  and
  furnished  the  following  information  relating  to  an  object,
  presently  referred  to  as  an  unidentified  flying  object,  he
  allegedly  photographed  during  November,  1944:

  Sometime  during  1943,  he  graduated  from  the
  German  Air  Academy  and  was  assigned  as  a  member  of  the
  Luftwaffe  on  the  Russian  Front,  Near  the  end  of  1944,  he
  was  released  from  this  duty  and  was  assigned  as  a  test
  pilot  to  a  top  secret  project  in  the  Black  Forest  of  Austria,
  During  this  period  he  observed  the  aircraft  described  above,
  It was saucer shaped, about twenty-one feet in diameter,
  radio controlled, and mounted several jet engines around the
  exterior portion of the craft.  He further described the
  exterior  portion  as  revolving around  the  dome  in  the  center
  which remained  stationary.  It was  PEYERL's responsibility
  to  photograph  the  object  while  in  flight.  He  asserted  he
  was  able  to  retain  a  negative  of  a  photograph  he  made  at  7,000
  meters  (20,000  feet),  A  Xerox copy of  the  negative,  as  furnished
  by  PEYERL,  appears  on  the  last  page  of  this  communication,
  Also,  a  still  photograph  he  allegedly  made  "at  the  risk  of  my
  life",  illustrating  the  object  parked  in  a  hanger,  appears  on
  the  last  page.

  According  to  PEYERL,  the  aboye  aircraft  was  designed
  and engineered by (First Name Unknown){\KUEHR, a German engineer
  whose present whereabouts is unknown  him,  He assumed KUEHR
  was taken into custody by Allied Forcés upon the termination
  of  hostilities,  PEYERL  stated  KUEHR  unsuccessfully  attempted
  to  avoid  the  German  draft,  but  was  apprehended  by the  Gestapo
RE;  PAUL L,  PEYERL
  INFORMATION CONCERNING

in  Vienna,  Austria,  sometime  during  late  1943  or  early  1944,
PEYERL  also  assumed  the  secrets prtaining  to  this  aircraft
were  captured  by Allied Forces,  He  said  this  type  of  aircraft
was  responsible  for  the  downing  of  at  least  one  American  B-26
airplane,  He  furnished  the  following fuel and engine  data;

  "....Fuel mixture of NoH4,0 in Methyl Alcohol
  (CH3g0H) rather than 'oxygen-holding' mixture of
  hydrogen  peroxide Hj09  in water,  7m  1,3m  high  two
  rocket  motors;  smooth  flow,  rotary  drive  over  2,000
  meters  per  second...."

  PEYERL  said  he  copied  this  data  from  a  board
located  in  the  hanger  area,

  PEYERL  asserted  he  was  shot  down  by  the  British
on  March  14,  1945,  after  having  been  reassigned  to  the
Western  Front.  He  was  held  prisoner  by  the  British  in
London  and  later  in Brussels  until  his  release  in  1946,
He  departed  for  the  United  States  from  Bremerhaven,  Germany,
on  December  26,  1951;  entering  the  United  States  in New
Jersey on January 7, 1952, and was subsequently naturalized
in Miami during 1958,  He is presently employed as a
mechanic  at  Eastern  Airlines,  Miami,  Florida,  He  related
he was  born May  3,  1924,  in Austria,

  PEYERL  stated  he  has  withheld  this  information
because  he  assumed  the  United  States  possessed  it.  He  has
become  increasingly  concerned  because  of  the  unconfirmed
reports  concerning  a  Similar  object  and  denials  the  United
States  has  such  an  aircraft.  He  feels  such a  weapon  would
be  beneficial  in Vietnam  and  would  prevent  the  further  loss
of American lives which was his paramount purpose  in  contacting
the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI).

  PEYERL  reiterated he  has  the  original  negatives
of  both  photographs.  He  said  the  shots  were  taken  at  a  thirty
second  time  exposure,

  This  document  contains  neither  recommendations  nor
conclusions  of  the FBI.  It  is  the  property  of  the FBI  and  is
loaned  to  your  agency;  it  and  its  contents  are  not  to  be
distributed  outside  your  agency.
  46  »
  UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

  FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

  to
In Reply, Please Refer
File No. 69..0011328  Miami, Florida
  dune 8, 1967

  RE;  PAUL L,  PEYERL
  INFORMATION CONCERNING

  On April 26,  1967, PAUL L, PEYERL,  1430 Southwest
  76th Street, Miami, Florida, appeared at the Miami Office and
  furnished the following information relating to an object,
  presently referred to as an unidéntified flying object, he
  allegedly photographed during November, 1944:

  Sometime during 1943, te graduated from the
  German Air Academy and was assigned as a member of the
  Luftwaffe on the Russian Front.  Near the end of 1944, he
  was released from this duty and was assigned as a test
  pilot to a top secret project in the Black Forest of Austria.
  During this period he observed the aircraft described above.
  It was saucer shaped, about twenty-one feet in diameter,
  radio controlled, and mounted several jet engines around the
  exterior portion of the craft.  He further described the
  exterior portion as revolving around the dome in the center
  which remained stationary.  It was PEYERL's responsibility
  to photograph the object while in flight. He asserted he
  was able to retain a negative of a photograph he made at 7,000
  meters (20,000 feet). A Xerox copy of the negative, as furnished
  peggy ue  appears on the last page of this communication.
  iso, ® still photograph he allegedly made "at the risk of my
  laze’, illustrating the object parked in a hanger, appears on
  the last page.
  According to PEYERL, the above aircraft was designed
  and engineered  by (First Name Unknown) KUEHR, a German engineer
  whose present whereabouts is unknown to him.  He assumed KUEHR
  was taken into custody by Allied Forces upon the termination
  of hostilities.  PEYERL stated KUEHR unsuccessfully attempted
  to avoid the German draft, but was apprehended by the Gestapo
  » Austria, sometime during iate 1943 or early
  also assumed the secrets prtaining to this aircraft
  captured
  by Allied Forces,  He said this type
  of aircraft
  responsible for the downing of at least one American B-26
 irpiane.  He furnished
  the following fuel and engine
  data:

  “.oo-Fuel mixture of NgH,O in Methyl Alcohol
  (CHgOH) rather than ‘oxygen-holding’ mixture of
  hydrogen peroxide  in water.  %.1,3m
  high two
  rocket motors;  flow, rotary drive over 2,000
  meters per second...."

  PEYERL ssid he copied this data from a board
leca
  in the hanger
  ted  orea.

  PEYERL asserted he was shot down by the British
on March 14, 1945, after having been reassigned to the
Western Front.  He  prisoner by the British in

rel:1
  i
London and  later in Brussels until his release in 1946.

  ia
He departed  for the United States from Bremerhaven, Germany,

  i :if
on December  the United States in New
  FY

  alHl
  was subsequently naturalized
  g  asa

  aif  fel
  i
  ]
  age fe
  i
  Clie
  anf
  !
  H
  il
  :  FH  EF

  ||  it if#ili
  =  g

  fiHl
i  :

  iL sete
  Fy F
  &
  :

4]  :F  :
  IT

  RAST
  20
  “4

  eres

  CEN
Fc fe2  om  Sw,
  eat

  NO ite casi  TE  |
  G0 STATES DEPARTMENT Uae
  FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

In Reply, Please Refer to
File No,

  62-0~11328  Miami, Florida
  dune 8,  1967

  On April 26, 1967, PAUL L. PEYERL, 1430 Southwest
  76th Street, Miami, Florida, appeared at the Miami Office and
  furnished the following information relating to an oeree
  tly referred to as an unidentified flying object,
  he
  allegedly photographed during November, 1944:

  Sometime during 1943, he graduated from the
  German Air Academy and was assigned as a member of the
  Luftwaffe on the Russian Front.  Near the end of 1944, he
  was released from this duty and was assigned as a test
  pilot te a top secret project in the Black Forest of Austria.
  During this period he observed the aircraft described above.
  It was saucer shaped, about twenty-one feet in diameter,
  vadio controlled, and mounted several jet engines around the
  exterior portion of the craft.  He further described the
  exterior portion as revolving around the dome in the center
  which remained stationary.  It was PEYERL'’s responsibility
  to photograph the object while in flight.  He asserted he
  was able to retain a negative of a photograph he made at 7,000
  meters (20,000 feet). A Xerox copy of the negative, as furnished
  by PEYERL, appears on the last page of this communication.
  Also, a still photograph he allegedly made “at the risk of my
  life", illustrating the object parked in a hanger, appears on
  the last page.

  According to PEYERL, the above aircraft was designed
  and engineered  by (First Name  Unknown) KUEHR, a German engineer
  whose present whereabouts  is  unknown to him. He assumed KUEHR
  was taken into custody by Allied Forces upon the termination
  of hostilities.  PEYERL stated KUEHR unsuccessfully attempted
  to avoid the German draft, but was apprehended by the Gestapo
  has the original neg
  PEYERL reiterated hethe  atives
ef both photog raphs. He said  shots were taken at a thirty
second time exposure.
  r recommendations nor
  This document contains neithepert
  the pro
  the FBI. It is its
conclusions of age  y of the FBI and is
  ncy; 4% and  contents are not to be
Best Possible Image
  UNITE  ES GOVERNMENT

  Memorandym  &
  DIRECTOR,  FBI  paTE:  7/25/67

  SAC,  NEWARK  (47-0)

  UNIDENTIFIED AERIAL OBJECTS
  IVAN SANDERSON, COMPLAINAN
  T
  ALLEGED IMPERSONATION OF FBI
  AGENTS
  4.AND MILITARY PERSONNEL
  + IMPERSONATION
  TF
  ty

  Enclosed/herewith for  the Bureau ar
  13 and 14 of a book now bein  hapters
  g prepared by. IVAN  ANDERSON,
  The book relates t  Unidentified Aerial Objects
  SANDERSON states will  (UAO) which
  “soon be published in mag
  azine form on
  a nation-wid  e  basis.  Ride  )\
  NS
  /

  SANDERSON,  who  claims  to  Have
  l books,  written  severa
  is
  He
  a graduate of Oxford in Engl
  states
  and and has various degrees
  that he has appeared on the  ,  SZ
  Gary Moore Show and
  other  types  of  television  projects,  He  relates  that  he  has  pe)
  been  extremely concerned  about  UAOs  and  in  the  submitted
  material  he  eludes  briefly  to  the  FBI  and  the  CIA,

  There  does  not  appear  to be  a violation  of  the
  rsonation  Statute  or  any  other  violation  over  which  this
  cau  now  has  jurisdiction,  The  enclosed  information
  submitted  is
  only  for  the  Bureau's  interest  and  no  further
  action  is  cht.  id Newark,
  /
  2 - Bureau Bago?
  1 - Newark
  V
  NSI:; JuP
  (3)

  IN

  FILED

  \

  X3 yIY Woke hue 22967
  Scr la  ie  ~~

  ORIGINAL

  NOT RECORDED
  ie

  152 JUL 28 1967  :

|
  os
  6 1 Buy U.S. Savings Bonds Regularly on the Payroll Savings Plan
rn
  ETE  S
  August 24, 1967

  ,  You
  yi
  REC- 14  \
  Mr. Theodore Gray Hullett
  561 37th Avenue.
  San Francisco, California 94121

  Dear Mr. Hullett:

  Mr. Hoover received your letter of

  August 19th, with enclosure, and wanted you to know

  he appreciates your best wishes.  He asked me to

  thank you for sending the publication you forwarded

  to him.

  Sincerely yours,

|  MAILED 19

  AUG 24 1967
  |  comm-fet  Helen W. Gandy  y
  i  Secretary
  NOTE:  Bufiles contain nothing igentifiable regarding correspondent
  and no record of the publication;  ‘ufo contact."  Inasmuch as
  correspondent might possiblyjuse\A  letter from the Director in some
  manner to promote this magazine, an in-absence reply is deemed
  advisable.  a
  Eri G-938
  aa
(8 Hg 9G  Ep af
  August 19,  1967

  |
  I

  Wb

  Director J.  Edgar Hoover
  Federal Bureau of Investigation
  Washington,  D.  C.

  Dear Mr. Hoover:

  A very Happy Birthday....... July 1967.

  I am very Lucky to have  the  opportunity this  afternoon  to be
  able  to Introduce to you the  ufo  contact igap  journal.  This
  magazine  has  been dedicated  to Mr.  Jeorge Adams! L.

  My letter  to you and  the  enclosed magaz ine  is  a  project of  my
  own,  I  am  a  reporter  for  ufo  contact,  and  in  this  way  I  hope  to
  bring to  the attention.of  V.I.P. of  our country,  our magazine  and=-
|  the message that it c@gtains, to the reader, I don't sell the  bis
| magaz, ne but  plan ape itgto the person I write  to as a gift.
  is my own, and theregperience I will gain will be my
  aPerhaps an adyencepeng, to the position of co-worker for
  IGAP in  the  future.  wy  =
  oS  FAIS
  Thank you very mich for Aiving me a moment of your time,  TP an
  >  you will find  our,magazine inte:  ting.  S

  May I  again wish you a  very Happy Birthday!  (Walter Winchell)

  Your Friend,

  Theodore  Gray Hullett.
  561  37th Avenue
  San Francisco, California
  ZIP CODE:  9121

  16 SEP 12 1967

  ll
Aue 22° il se AH
  REC+O
  FBI WICK
  ufo contact
  igap journal  ae

  <wy
  i
  SSESs—
  Setete
  = SS
  Ss  a— ——
  acer

  )

  mn
  \

  2S
  SoooseSe
  os
  SSSSSSSSSOS
  So
  SISOSSoS
  SSS OSSFS
  <>

  nternaticnal
PRINTED IN DENMARK  et acqua [ nted
ee  program
  Fraternity of
  Purpose and scope  NATIONAL AERONAUTICS AND SPACE ADMINISTRATION

  Cosmic  GODDARD SPACE FLIGHT CENTER
  GREENBELT, MARYLAND  20771

  Sons and Daughters  This magazine has been dedicated to

  MR.  GEORGE ADAMSKI.
  FILE  ivcu,
  Mr.  Adamski  launched  the  IGAP  —  International  Get
IGAP Information Service:  Acquainted Program — in  1959,  based  on the philosophy  Mr.  Fred  Steckling
  FEB  20 1967

UFO CONTACT.  that  people  in  all  parts  of the world  should  be  given
  Alexandria,  Virginia  22312
  the opportunity of knowing what is going on everywhere
Editors:  in  the  field  of  flying  saucers.  His  hope  was  that  as  Dear Mr.  Steckling:
  Mr Ronald Caswell,  many  as  possible  would  discover  the  truth  of  the  pre-
  309 Carters Mead,  sent  age  and  turn  to  face  the  time  to  come  —  to  learn  Thank  you  very  much  for  your  letter  and  for  your  offer  to  show us
  Harlow, Essex,  to  accept,  through  conviction,  the  fact  that  we  are  all  your  Eilm.  Tf  am  not  really qualified  ts  pass  judgment  on  if,  but  it
  England.  citizens of the Cosmos and Children of the Cosmic Pow-  would  be  good  to  have  the  people  here  at  Goddard  who  are  look  at  it.
  May I  suggest,  then,  that  you  give  Mr. Penn Stevens,  ,»  a  call.
  er  whose  Laws  run  through  the  entire  Cosmos.  These
  Major H. C. Petersen  He will  make  an appointment  for  you  to come  out  to Goddard and  show the
  Laws  we  can  learn  to  comprehend  through  study  and
  (responsible for publication and subscription),  Photographic  Branch  and  me  your  film.  Unfortunately  we  have  no  Smm
  understanding  of  the  »Science  of  Life«  brought  to  our
  Bavnevolden 27, Maaloev, Sj.,  projector  here,  so I  must  ask  you  to  bring  your  own.  Thank  you  again
  attention by the presence of friendly visitors from other  for  your
  Denmark.  offer.
  worlds.
  Sincerely  yours,
ORGANIZATION.  The magazine is  sent to  civil  and  military  authorities
Headquarters:  all  over the world,  to  leaders  in  the United  Nations,  in  (eo  € off
  The  George  Adamski  Foundation,  the  Vatican,  in  scientific  circles,  and  to  Press,  radio
  314 Lado de Loma Drive,  and TV  authorities.
  Paul  D  Lowman,  Jr.
  Vista, California, U.S.A.  The  purpose  of  this  magazine  is  to  bring  to  every-
  Geochemistry  Laboratory
  one,  everywhere,  news  of  events  from  all  quarters  of  Laboratory for Theoretical  Studies
IGAP Representatives in: —  the globe in all its varied aspects. This means any news
  America, Australia, Austria  that  can possibly be of value in our endeavour to bring
  Belgium, Brazil  to mankind an understanding of what is going on in  our
  DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE
  Canada  world all the time. We shall try to detect any and every
  WASHINGTON  20330
  Denmark  move in the direction of that truth which  we have  acc-
  England  epted,  but  which  is  not  yet  officially  accepted  or  rec-
  Finland  ognized  in  broader circles:  OFFICE OF THE  SECRETARY

  Germany
  1. People  from  other  worlds  in  our  system  are  visit-
  Holland
  Indonesia  ing our planet.

  Japan  . People  from  other  worlds  are in  contact with  cer-
  Mexico  tain political and scientific circles in East and West.
  Norway  . People  from  all  walks  of  life,  official  and  unoffi-
  Sweden, Switzerland.  cial,  all  over  the  world,  have  been  contacted  by
  people from other  worlds;  such  contacts  have been  Dear Mr. Steckling:

  kept  secret so far.
Subscription: (Calendar Year)  »  Your letter concerning your unidentified flying object (UFO)
  . The  philosophy  brought  to  the  world  by  Mr. Geo-  film  finally reached my office---Office of Information for Project
  Surface  mail  $3.50,  £ 24 Sh. per annum
  rge Adamski  is  considered  and  aid  helping  to  un-  Blue  Book,  the Air Force UFO program.
  Airmail  $5.00 per annum
  cover the truth of our origin and our future destiny.
  Single copy  $1.00 (s.m.)  The Air Force would be very interested in reviewing your
  (or equivalent in other currencies).  The  magazine  will  make  no  attempt  whatsoever  to  film.  If you would get in touch with me  at  the Pentagon,  we will

  fight anyone, in spite of any action which might be laun-  arrange a showing for any Monday which is convenient for you.

  ched  against it.  Only the truth, whatever its guise,  will
  My number is  "eae,  AE  iia

  be brought to bear, to allow each to decide for himself
PLEASE NOTE! - COPYRIGHT IGAP  Thank you for offering to show your film;  I am looking forward
  what he can and will accept in this wonderful world on
  to hearing from you.
  his march forward to new experiences.
MATERIAL  FROM  UFO  CONTACT  MAY
  This  magazine  is  non-political,  non-religious,  non-sec-  Sincerely,
ONLY BE  USED  AFTER  WRITTEN  PER-  tarian  and  non-profit-making.  We  hope  that  you  may
MISSION  IS OBTAINED FROM:  profit  from  reading  it,  and  that  you  will  tell  as  many
  as possible about it, — especially if you find it of value.
IGAP Information Service,  Please write to us if  youfind it without value or if you
Bavnevolden 27,  have any  suggestions  or comments  to make.  Lt Colonel,
Maaloev SJ.,  | Denmark.  Chief, Civil Branch
  Sincerely yours,  Community Relations Division
  The Editors.  The Editors.  Office of Information
140  ufo contact  ufo contact  113

at home and watch your favourite television pro-  some of these outer space civilizations have evolved  No. Instead he pushed and shoved his way into the,
gramme. Then you will forget all about it. But do  further than we and would therefore be able to tell  EDITORIAL...  many times, inhospitable climate of ’’expert’’ analysis
you ever wonder what becomes of old television  us,  for example,  how to avoid a  nuclear war«.  and clinical dissection, saying: ’’Here is my evidprogrammes —  apart  from  the  ones  they  show  on  ence, here is my story — TAKE IT OR LEAVE IT!”
Sundays?! Do they just fade out and vanish — or  The Space Brothers Keep Their Word.  AND  HE  DIED,  DOING JUST THAT.
do they keep travelling through space for ever,  "WE ARE NOT OPPOSED TO A COURT JESTER
  As  predicted  by  the  Space  Brothers  in  earlier  on the green lawns of the Royal Palace, provided he  What kept him going for so long? What kept the
perhaps to be picked up by creatures on other
  issues of Topside, they are keeping their promise  is not taken for an astronomical philosopher — —’’.  flame  so  bright  for those  12-13  long,  bitter-sweet
planets? Fantastic — — but scientists think it is pos-
  to make themselves seen more and more by the  years?  His tremendous sense of humour? YES!  His
sible. After all, we here in Britain were able to  Here, with all the arrogance of the self-opinion-
  people of Earth. From the increased number of  many thousands of friends and supporters the world
watch the Olympic Games in Japan via a satellite  ated, self-appointed judge, in words of ignorance,
  reports of sightings and landings of UFOs all over  over? YES, THESE ALSO!
in  outer  space.  mated with bigotry and begotten of an inflated ego-
  the world, there can be little doubt that our space  But his faith in  a DIVINE INTELLIGENCE and sure
  »Some scientists even think that weird cracklings  tism, we see a small section of that vociferous but
  friends are now making an all-out effort to awaken  knowledge of the existence and the helpful presence
and gibberish that occasionally come in on radio and  often influential Press opinion which always swallows
  us to their reality, and it is becoming daily more  friends from other planets in space, were the Rod
TV programmes are really pirate programmes from  before it chews.
  obvious that they are prepared to use every peace-  of good, spiritually- and physically-healthy human
other planets. And it is true that scientific listening  ful means within their considerable power to achieve  The occasion was the much-publicised, much-criti-  and the Staff on which he leaned, until he died.
posts have taped some mighty odd sounds from  their mission of goodwill. Their purpose appears to  cised audience of Queen Juliana of the Netherlands  G.A.’s "’end’’ was but a beginning. And when he
space which could come from some sort of intel-  be two-fold: (1) To prevent a nuclear holocaust  accorded to one George Adamski of California,  graduated” others took over.
ligence, somewhere in the Universe.  which may not only destroy Planet Earth but also  U.S.A., at Il a.m. on May 18th 1959, at Soestdijk  He knew, in those last few months, that it wouldn’t
  »Back in September, 1953, viewers all over Eng-  produce dire results on the entire Solar System  Palace, near Utrecht, Holland.  be long. Already he knew those who were going to
land were amazed when their screens suddenly  and perhaps even further afield in Outer Space;  carry on his work. And the Brothers and the Sisters,
  The vociferous Press opinion in this instance was
carried the identification card and call letters of  and (2) To enlighten their more backward Earth  those friends  from across the  seas  of space, were
  of  the  Catholic  People’s  Party  newspaper,  ’’Die
television station KLEE, in Houston, Texas. A freak  Brothers as to the urgent necessity of widening  busy  in  their task  of forging  new  links,  reshaping
  Volkskrant’’.
occurrence? — that’s what the experts thought - -  their horizons to encompass knowledge and practice  the  pattern  of  their  contacts  with  those  close  to
until radio engineers tried to contact KLEE, thou-  of Cosmic Brotherhood, and the realization that  We could imagine the same self-elevated journa-  Adamski.
sands of miles away across the Atlantic. »Station  they have moral obligations not only to their own  list writing: "We are not opposed to a court jester
  AS  WITH  GEORGE  ADAMSKI,  the  Brothers  cont-
KLEE«, they were told, »has been off the air for  kind but to civilizations on other planets who may  in the private apartments at the Vatican, provid-
  inue  to  furnish  evidence  of  their  presence  in  our
all of three years, and since that time no KLEE  have to suffer for Earth’s irresponsible actions.  ed — —”’, on another May day, of another II a.m. au-
  skies. New films, startling in their clarity, are being
identification card has been shown«. Where had  If the powers-that-be on Earth continue to cover-  dience, much more secret, of much more potential
  provided  by  G.A.’s  Co-workers.  New  accounts  of
that phantom picture been for three years? Why  up and disregard the continued efforts of the Space  significance, four years later, when Adamski was
  recent contact with the men  and women  visiting  us
did it appear in England? And how did it get back  Brothers, then they may expect to receive even  received at the bed-side of the dying Pope John.
  are evidence of their continued  interest in our welfrom wherever it had been. Nobody knows. So if,  more startling and dramatic visitations in the near
  Of the one audience, with a gracious First Lady,  fare.
tonight, you should see an unidentified object on  future.
  the world’s sensation tabloids went to town. Lacking
your  screen  —  —  -«
  Here,  in  this  issue  of  UFO  CONTACT, you  will
  CREDIT: — COURTESY OF »TOPSIDE« — JOUR-  the meat of the occasion on which to feast their
  see more photographic presentation of ’’Unidentified
  To Ufologists, the idea of watching a blank tele-  NAL OF THE OTTAWA NEW SCIENCES CLUB.  readers they gave them the bones and the offal, and
  Flying  Objects’.  In some strange fashion,  by some
vision screen for such phenomena is not so far-out  in the process they soiled and besmirched their own
  peculiar  ’’co-incidence’’,  another  of  G.A.’s_  close
— in fact, it might prove an interesting experiment  honourable profession.
  associates  is  enabled  to  take  startling  movie-film
for those of us who believe such things are pos-  The second audience was spared this treatment,  shots of objects in the sky. With this new evidence
sible. Coupled with a telepathic request to our  and still is.  we shall  show, too,  how Adamski’s  successors  are
space friends, it might even produce results! That  STILL pushing the experts, STILL offering for exam-
  And  so  we  can  perceive  how  some  of  George
the idea has some scientific backing is shown by  ination photographic proof of "inexplicable phenom-
  Adamski’s  meetings with the famous received the
a recent article which appeared in the »Ottawa  OUR  READERS  MAY BE  INTERESTED TO  ena” in the skies above us.
  full blast of publicity, whilst others, conducted in a
Journal” viz:  KNOW UFO CONTACT IS SENT TO OVER  secret undercurrent of diplomacy peopled with silent  There are always those who are ready to jeer and
  »,,Live’  TV  Coming  from  Outer  Space?«  60  NATIONAL  DELEGATES  AND  OTHERS  couriers and intercontinental briefings, are still, very  deride. This is a peculiar facet of the human psycho-
  much, ’'classified”’.  logy which stems almost solely from ignorance. But,
Salt Lake City (AP) — A distinguished British astro-  AT THE UNITED NATIONS IN NEW YORK,
  thank God, there are those also who, in the face of
nomer, Dr. Fred Hoyle, speaks of the possibility  BESIDES  MANY  HEADS  OF  STATE  OF  Adamski was NEVER afraid of the scoffers and the
  public intolerance and apathy, are able to stand out
of »live« TV from outer space. And by »live« he  COUNTRIES ALL OVER THE WORLD.  critics, still less of the faceless spokesmen in autho-
  from the rest and say of the pioneer: ’’Give the man
means people — outer space people, people who  rity. With energy which  had to be seen to be  be-
  his chance, let the man have his say’.
may live on planets like ours on the other side of  lieved,  with  courage  of  conviction  based  in  sure
  As  we  have  said  a few words  back,  evidence  is
the Milky Way. Hoyle thinks it’s highly probable  SHOULD OUR READERS WISH TO OFFER  knowledge of his own experiences, and with fortitude
  still  being  provided of our  extraterrestrial  visitors’
that such planets and people do exist. So do a !ot  distilled from the sweet and the sour of his support-
  POSITIVE HELP — FINANCIAL OR OTHER-  presence on  and  above our planet.  That this  evidof other scientists.  ers and his detractors, HE DIDN’T GIVE  A DAMN.
  WISE — IN SPREADING THE TRUTH OF THE  ence remains a puzzle, — or gives the impression, at
  »They think some of the radio waves hitting the  He  could  have  written  ’’pot-boilers’”  of  space-  least,  of  remaining  a  puzzle  — to  competent  ’’exearth right now contain messages from those people  UFO-CASE,  THEN  THAT  HELP  WILL  BE
  fiction in his sunny California, like many of his cont-  perts’’, despite public pronouncements made by the
and there is some scientific effort under way to  VERY WELCOME.
  emporaries,  making  a  fortune  from  the  credulous.  head  of  Project  Blue  Book,  the  U.S.A.F.’s  UFO
decipher these messages, to tune into those radio  The Editors.  This  is  shown  by the  fact that  his  books  became  agency,  that  UFO’s  are  NOT  from  Outer  Space,
waves, waves which would also transmit pictures.  world best-sellers in many languages. Yet in 12 years  ("Evening  Telegram’,  San  Bernadino,  California,
  »What could we see and hear on this »celestial«  he only offered TWO AND A HALF BOOKS to the  February 15th  1967 — full  report on  Page 103,  UFO
television? Hoyle, in his new book, »Of Men and  general  public.  Does  this  seem  like a  man  who  is  CONTACT, April issue), is shown here in the pages
Galaxies« (University of Washington Press), says  "on the make?”  of UFO CONTACT.
114  ufo contact  ufo contact  139

  Once before, a gracious lady was willing, against  only  beginning  to  accept the  remote  possibility  of  messages  to  trusted  UFO  workers  on  Earth,  and  sources  was  a  local  ham  radio  operator  who,  it
much advice, to listen to the sincere words of a man  "some form’’ of life, — and a one-cell life, at that, -  for other specific  purposes.  Most  of  us  have  read  must  be  clearly
  stressed, knew little if anything
who was still to battle for many years to come for  existing  anywhere  at all  outside  of  Earth.  And  any  accounts  written  by  people  claiming  to  have  recei-  about Mr. Smith’s work or scientific experiments
the truth which he propounded. We ask again for that  suggestion  that  intelligent  beings  existed  who  had  ved  messages,  both garbled and clear, from the  and most of the messages he received for Wilbert
First Lady’s gracious attention to certain matters  progressed past the stages of wars and poverty and  Space  Brothers via ham radios, tensor-coil experi-  Smith, on an unidentified waveband, were completewhich we believe, as in years gone by, will be of  racial intolerance, was to speak of Heaven itself.  ments, etc., or of seeing spacemen or other uniden-  ly unintelligible to him — although they made a lot
interest to her, also today.  Now,  in  1967,  many  things  have  changed.  The  tified  phenomena on their television screens. There  of sense to WBS.
  Our Open Letter we respectfully address to —  majority still  laughs, yes. But one sees in the ever-  was  one  amusing  story  of  a  man  who  fell  asleep
  By this means and with the usual, requested con-
  Her Majesty, Queen Juliana of the Netherlands.  expanding minority a level of radical but intelligent  while watching a late,  late movie on television and  firmation from other sources, Wilbert Smith received
  thought which would have been branded a "’heresy”’  awoke  several  hours  later  to  find  himself  staring  a lot of invaluable guidance in his scientific work.
  against  the  whole  Establishment  just  a  few  years  at  a  strange,  other-world  face  on  his  TV  screen!  The most dramatic incident, however, occurred when
  ago. With  our own  greatly-increased space  activity  He  was  so  scared,  he  snapped  off  the  TV  set  —  WBS and a small working  party of the then Ottawa
  and the near-proximity of an  Earthman’s landing on  and  sold  it the  next day! Then there are cases  of  Flying Saucer Club were preparing to test out an
  the Moon, ideas have had to change along with the  people  hearing  messages  and  celestial  music  on  experimental machine they had built. Just prior to

An open Letter
  immense changes  in the means of travel.  their tape  recorders.  Only  recently,  Fate  magazine  this  test,  the  Boys  from  Topside  broke  into  the
  What modern  science has yet to discover, how-  published a letter received from Myra Dee Hina of  ham  radio  operator’s  listening,  blanking  out  all
  ever, is  an antidote to  the enormously swollen ego  Sacramento, California, in which she stated that  other  stations  and  repeating  insistently  that  they
  of ’’Earth-man’’ which  has gained nothing from the  while attempting to record a new song she had  had an urgent message for Wilbert Smith which
  discoveries of Galileo other than a list of changed  created with the help of numerology, i.e., »notes  the operator was to pass on to him without delay —
  astronomical  data  and  some  very  basic  facts  con-  forming the vibration of each word«, on a brand-  and this he did. The message, couched in scientific
  cerning the solar system in which we live.  new tape  bought  at  a  local  store,  she  proceeded  terms,  might be translated into layman’s language
SOESTDIJK PALACE,  What they have not yet learned from the  ’’here-  to  pick the  notes  out  on  an  organ  and  sing  them  as saying that a certain flywheel in the experimental
SOESTDIJK,  tical” revelations of Galileo is that scientific ’’fact”’  on to  the tape.  She goes  on to  say:  »l  then went  machine would not stand the stress of the r.m.p.
HOLLAND.  JUNE 1967.  of today is  not  necessarily  scientific  ’’fact’  of to-  to turn off the tape recorder and found it had stop-  about to be placed on it and that it would shatter
  morrow; that they, too, these modern scientists, may  ped.  |  reset  it  and  played  the  notes  over  again.
To Her Majesty, Queen Juliana.  under the strain; precaution should be taken. Hee-
  be called upon — and perhaps very soon — to change  When |  returned  to  the  recorder to  stop  it,  some
Your Majesty,  ding this advice, WBS and his co-workers built a
  all previous concepts of astronomical physics and  sort of a force field seemed to appear. | could  protective  wooden  covering  around  the  machine,
  We venture to approach you on a matter which we  to accept that Earth-man  is not,  after all,  alone in  see it and feel it with my hands. It gave me the  after which they set it in motion and, as predicted,
believe will be of some interest to you, the subject  the Universe.  same sensation as if | held two repelling magnets.  the  flywheel  shattered,  embedding  the  wooden
being one of immense importance, bearing as it does  One of the pioneers in this school of thought was  Wondering why such a condition existed, | stood  boards with its shrapnel!
implications of a nature which might well affect in  George Adamski.  Since  his  passing,  in  April  1965,  and let the machine run on. When | no longer felt
the future every aspect of human endeavour on this  others have come forward to carry on his work.  the force field,  |  ran  the tape  back to  replay.  My
Earth.  Madam,  on  several occasions  in the years since  Intervention  on  a Tape Recording.
  voice was clear, the  notes were  clear — but  |  was
  The subject of which we speak has once before  1959, Mr. Adamski was given the opportunity of phot-  shocked  beyond  words  when  a  beautiful  orchestra  Another  strange  experience  occurred  during  an
been brought to Your Majesty’s attention, and, we  ographing some of these space craft on movie-film.  began  playing  the  very  theme  |  had  created.  it  exchange  of  tape  recording  letters  between  WBS
understand, received careful consideration; in fact,  These films  have been  shown widely in the United  lasted a long period, over 35 minutes. It is possible  and  another  UFO worker  in  the  U.S.  At the time,
it is in the belief that Your Majesty has shown more  States and in certain countries in Europe. They have  that the recorder somehow picked up music out of  WBBS  was  in  possession  of  certain  scientific  data
than usual interest that we make this approach to-  been  viewed  by persons  in  authority,  including ex-  the air. There was no other instrument in the house,  which  the  Boys  from  Topside  had  asked  him  to
day.  perts  in  many fields,  as well  as  by  millions  of the
  the tape was new and | ran it around 12 o'clock  keep confidential for the time being. Inadvertently,
  May we, with respect, ask you to cast your mind  general public by way of television.  midnight. I’ve tried to repeat this strange incident  WBS, more by implication than direct statement,
back 8 years. In May of 1959, Your Majesty was  The  extraterrestrial  human  beings  of  whom  Mr.
  several  times,  but  nothing  has  happened.  In  addi-  let slip a few clues to this scientific problem in
pleased to request the presence of Mr. George  Adamski spoke are still operating in the same patt-
  tion to  the  music  on  the  tape,  a  voice  speaks  in  a tape-letter to  his colleague. A week or so later,
Adamski, of California, at Soestdijk Palace. Mr.  ern. Several of his helpers have been  privileged to
  a  language  |  never  heard  before.  Several  persons  he  received the tape back from his friend, with a
Adamski was at that time on a world lecture-tour.  meet these people. New colour movies have been
  who have listened to the tape say they have a weird  message asking if he would fill in the blank spaces
  This gentleman had an unusual story to tell. He  taken of their ships, on occasion with the deliberate
  feeling while it is playing«.  on the tape. Puzzled, WBS examinod the tape carespoke of visitations to this planet by human beings  connivance of the pilots of the craft concerned.
  fullyand played it over, only to discover that in
from outer space. He spoke of kind human beings  An American lady, Mrs. Madeleine Rodeffer, and
  A Warning Via  Ham  Radio.  the places where he had let slip the teil-tale clues,
who had travelled in their spaceships, often called  two Germanborn, naturalised Americans, Mr. and
  the sound had been neatly erased and there was a
“flying saucers”, from their home planets in our  Mrs. Fred Steckling, have been privileged not only  While, even with an open mind, we cannot, un-
  slightly sticky substance on the tape in these areas!
solar system, from Venus, from Saturn, Mars and  to  meet these friends from  other  planets  but they  derstandably, vouch for the veracity of all these
  The  only possible conclusion he could reach was
others.  have also been enabled to photograph the movement  claims, we can quote a couple of experiences of
  that it was the work of the  Boys from Topside.
  Their understanding was far ahead of our own,  of their craft on colour-film.  this nature which happened to our founder, the
  Here then,
  are two authentic cases of the Space
their sincere interest in our welfare was part of a  All of these films have been viewed by persons  late Wilbert B. Smith, during his long and intensive
  Brothers using our electronic equipment for a speciphilosophy of brotherhood and love for all of the  in  authority, including  photographic  experts  of  study of the UFO Mystery.. WBS, as most of you
  fic purpose.
Creator’s Works.  the U.S. National Aeronautics and Space Agency,  know, was first and foremost a scientist, and he
  This was George Adamski’s story.  (NASA), and they have yet to be faulted.  never accepted anything without careful checks and
  In 1959, the subject of flying saucers was consid-  Madam, the reason for our approach in this Open  cross-checks and only by this method was he rea-  Use of Television.

ered by the majority to be laughable. Any attempt  Letter is this. Having heard from Mr. Adamski first-  sonably sure of his ground. But undoubtedly, he  Recently, the English magazine »Week-End« carto discuss the possibility of beings technologically  hand of his experiences, would Your Majesty care  received clear-cut messages and confirmations on  ried the following article, and while it is written in
superior to us, visiting Earth in space craft travelling  once more to hear of the visitations of the Brothers  a variety of scientific and philosophical matters  a humorous, tongue-in-cheek vein, its writer may
at fantastic speeds, was to dismiss all the scientific  and Sisters who befriended him? They have made  from his space friends, the »Boys from Topside«,  have been a lot closer to the truth than he imagiconcepts of the day. Indeed, in 1959, scientists were  themselves known to others; there are courageous  through a number of different media. One of these  ned! To quote: »Tonight you will probably sit down
138  ufo contact  ufo contact  115

  people still who battle against great odds for what  waited an hour or so for the Steckling’s plane to
  The space brothers- and
photosynthetic  process to  produce  at  least  simple
plant forms.  they know to be right.  come in from Washington, via New York and Co-
  We believe that, with Your Majesty’s approval,  logne. They were flying LUFTHANSA.
  "The significance of my findings,  if correct’,  Dr.
Johnson declared, "is that a case for life chemistry
in space can not only be inferred but the end pro-
  Earth’s electronic  further evidence can be produced for your consider-
  ation which will help greatly your understanding of
  Patrick had them paged as the Cologne flight be-
  gan to stream into the arrival bay, everyone on the
  these matters, thereby encouraging others to seek  look-out for the baggage coming up on the wide
  equipment
duct can be looked upon as a form of life similar
  the truth of these visitations from outer space. It is  moving belt from below. Mrs. Suzy Peeters, May’s
to that on earth”.
  our sincere belief that there is far too much at stake  lifelong friend, and Treasurer for the Belgian groups,
  Johnson made his discoveries by observing the
  for the world to continue to supress or ignore news  arrived in her tiny Volksvagen and smilingly greeted
spectral lines of light absorption of interstellar dust.  Unavoidable Interference.
  of events of such magnitude.  us, together with Philip, May’s younger son, who had
He found that the dust absorbed light at a certain
  Should Your Majesty so desire, George Adamski’s  been filming the aircraft from the airport roof. We
range of wavelength.  One of the commonest occurrences indicating the  friends would be honoured to tell their own stories  were all old friends. Suzy was to help with extra
  Identifying an element or compound by spectral  close presence of a  UFO is the  unavoidable inter-  and show their own films in Your Majesty’s presence.  transport back to Antwerp.
information is similar to identifying a human by his  ference with  Earth’s radio, electrical  and electronic
  With respect,  We looked at the people who were coming over
fingerprints.  equipment,  believed  to  be  brought  about  by  the
  Sincerely  to the inquiries desk; and the floor clattered with
  It  has  been  known  that  star-light  contains  many  different  force  field  in  which  the  UFO  operates.  The Editors.  luggage-loaded trollies as the passengers came away
colors. Scientists also know that molecules or atoms  Temporarily  stalled  cars,  »dead«  radios,  distorted  *  from Customs and began passing through the barrin the path of star-light are capable of absorbing a  television screens and disrupted electronic equip-  iers, some hurrying, some looking lost, others being
part of it.  ment are among the features most frequently met with
  in aclose encounter with a flying saucer. One of our
  The evidence of the  greeted enthusiastically by waiting friends. The huge
  hall rang with sound, and above all were the dis-
  This means that individual molecules can be ident-
  correspondents in Westford, Mass., U.S.A., where  embodied voices speaking loftily from many hidden
ified positively by the particular spectral portion of
the light they absorb on a one-to-one basis.
  there has been a record number of sightings this  quiet contacts  loudspeakers. We wondered what Fred and Ingrid
  year, tells us that when a UFO passes near her  would look like.
  by RONALD CASWELL.
  home, a most extraordinary pattern of horizontal  A neat-looking couple with a boy of about seven
IN MILLIONS.  lines  of  small  vees’s  (thus:  vvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvv)  ap-  ’THEY’LL NEVER GET CLOSE ENOUGH when  spoke to one of the clerks at the inquiries desk.
  Previous like studies of spectral lines indicated  pears on her television screen and that frequently  I’ve got this in my hand, you know, Ronald’, said  They turned and faced us as the man pointed our
the presence of hydrocarbons. But since the comb-  when she goes outside to investigate, there is the  Fred with some conviction, looking down at the  way.

inations of known hydrocarbon compounds extends  culprit UFO! Included among the many reports of  gleaming object he held on his knee. He had a  Fred was about 5 feet 10, Ingrid about 5-7. Glenn
into the millions, further extensive study was required  the increased world-wide UFO activity in recent  slightly rueful smile on his face. He reminded me of  was looking around him at the high roof of the foyer.
to identify the major components of dust from this  months are typical ones such as the report from  a youngish Bob Hope in looks except that his nose  Ingrid was an attractive young woman with natural
spectral information.  Azores published July 11 which reads: »Flying Ob-  was not so sharp and his face a little more rounded.  blonde hair, slim and wearing a white, two-piece suit.
  Random testing of the possible hydrocarbon comp-  ject Stops Watches. A spokesman for Santa Maria  "It’s a power zoom lens, see. It’s fully automatic. —  She did not look the type one would expect to see
  Airport claimed today that a mysterious flying ob-  They know that if | get them on this, NO-ONE will  at a special  private  meeting  of members of the
onents  of the  interstellar  dust  would  take  several
lifetimes.  By systematic  elimination  of possibilities,  ject apparently stopped all electro-magnetic watches  be able to deny it’.  United States Senate Aeronautics and Space Comm-
Dr. Johnson reduced the field to porphyrins and  at the airport when it flew slowly over the island  We sat near to the open French window of the  ittee.
  yesterday. He said a white cylindrical object was  lounge with the sun streaming in, | on the comfort-  Fred seemed a rather serious-faced young man.
carbotenoids, which are closely associated with
chlorophyll. He compared the absorption band spec-  seen flying slowly in a north-westerly direction at  able old settee, Fred on a highbacked chair, one  Both were in their early thirties. Both were Germantra of these substances in laboratory conditions sim-  a height of 33,000 feet«. Another report from Can-  knee crossed over the other, looking thoughtfully at  born, naturalised Americans. They had lived in Caulating the extra-terrestrial environments of the dust  berra, Australia, published soon after Mariner I  his own fingers idly adjusting the lens-piece of the  nada for some time prior to their arrival in the
  was photographing Mars, reads: ’’Did Mysterious  cine-camera.  States. Only little Glenn’s voice was totally Ameriand found that they matched.
  Object Distort Mars Signals? A mysterious glowing  May Morlet was somewhere in the house, probably  can.

  Further  investigation  through  both  spectroscopic
  object — hovering near Canberra Airport while the  ringing through to some of the guests we were ex-  So this was Fred Steckling, the young man who
studies and lasar research at the Electro-Optical  U.S. Mariner space probe was taking pictures of  pecting later in the day — or maybe she had driven  had not wished to ’’take over’, as George Adamski
Systems revealed the substance in question to be  Mars — has baffled experts in Canberra. Six members  into Antwerp with Ingrid, Fred’s wife, who had a  had hoped during the last few days of his illness in
chlorophyll.
  of the traffic control tower crew said the object  hairdressing appointment that afternoon. Tomorrow  Washington. D.C. As Fred said, no-one could take
 If some of this dust should reach a planet like  hung suspended at about 5,000 feet for 40 minutes.  we were to run through to The Hague to meet some  G.A.’s place. So it was left at that. And George had
Mars, could the chlorophyll photosynthesize?  It disappeared when an air force plane was sent  of our Dutch friends who were arranging Fred’s lect-  died, not knowing. Or did he know, that wise old
  out to identify it. Experts now are wondering if it  ure and film-show there.  man?
  "We  have  indications  that  life  started  here  (on
  was coincidence that the object was sighted shortly  Hans was about somewhere in the big old house.  Madeleine and Fred and Ingrid had just gone on
earch) from outside’, Dr. Johnson  declared.  ’’The
  before nearby Tidninbilla tracking station was sched-  He had arranged for a few days’ leave and travelled  working as before, only much harder. Telling G.A.’s
same thing could happen there’”’.
  uled to pick up Mariner signals. The station had  down from Copenhagen some days before. Hans is  story, showing his films, bothering the officials on
  To illustrate the point, Dr. Johnson said he cond-
  unusual difficulty in locking on to Mariner at the  Major Petersen of the Royal Danish Air Force, organ-  Capitol Hill. And now they had Madeleine Rodeffer’s
ucted some experiments on rocks estimated to be
  time«.  iser of the European and Asian sections of IGAP.  film to show as well, the amazing close-up shots of
4/2 billion years old. He found porphyrins, a ’’skele-
  He may never live it down, but, much-travelled man  the scout-craft hovering over her ’’front yard”, which
ton” form of chlorophyll.
  that he is, he had left his passport back home! He  was in reality, the long sloping, grassy bank running
  Dr. Johnson speculated that the same mechanism  —  Deliberate Control.  gave a huge chuckle as he described to us how he  from her house down to the road. At the most, a
condensation of dust into meteors, which are then  It is believed that most of the aforegoing inci-  had managed to talk himself across the German  hundred feet in the air, level with the tall tree-tops.
attracted to planets — can be at work now as well as  dents are more or less of an accidental nature. But  frontier. Luckily his wife had now sent the passport  Madeleine and Ingrid had faced a chilly reception
in the past when earth was born.  there is steadily-mounting evidence over the years  on.  committee at the private Senate hearing of January
  f  that our space visitors are able to and actually  | had flown across to Brussels a few days before,  1965, a couple of months before George died; and
  Credit: — Mrs. Merna Lindermayor,  do use our electronic equipment to make _ their  on September 1st, and drank coffee in the airport  at the end of the showing of George’s film sequen-
  Can Bernadino, California.  presence known to their earth brothers, to convey  lounge with Pat Morlet, May’s elder son, whilst we  ces and a 45-minute verbal barrage from some sarc-
116  ufo contact  ufo contact  137

astic senators, Madeleine, who had worked in a Gov-  was this red, glowing light swaying over the house!”’  There  is  no  doubt  that  a  great  number  of  the  other planets, just as ’’their bacteria’ has been a
ernment  office for  many  years,  just  stood  up  and  Fred smiled knowingly.  meteoric  falls  actually  are  remains  of  ’’natural’’  long, long while living with us.
told  them  that  she  wouldn’t  like  to  be  in  THEIR  "You can  bet, they’ve got our wave-lengths!””  he  objects in space — but not by any means al! of them.  Thus there exists great unexplored areas of resshoes when  people found out what was being kept  said.  No doubt also, some of the falls of ice are from  earch with which science can come to grips and
from them.  As we  looked  out at  May’s  long  lily-pond  in the  aircraft de-icing or breaking off by some other  learn from; and when, finally, these are explained,
  Did they think the public was blind?  spacious lawn, the big, leafy trees almost overhang-  means; the theory about ice from the toilets is very  the next natural step will be to learn how one can
  Many  had  seen  the  planes  chasing  the  saucers.  ing the house and splashing the ground with shadow,  doubtful, but even if we give this theory a certain  come to live without being ’’infected’’ by bacteria.
Even children.  Fred gave a  little  laugh to  himself and  glanced  up  chance, then it still explains only a very small part  We are on the way; but for a while yet we shall
  And  Madeleine  had  come  out  of the  committee-  at me. He was so often serious, especially when he  of the total number of reported falls.  be “infected” by bacteria, and believe that we can
room  seething with  anger. A few weeks  afterwards  talked to the people who gathered at May’s house,  Until the Rocket-age’s attempts to explain condit-  “infect’’ our sister planets’ inhabitants with our bacshe  had  filmed  a  scout-ship  over  her  own  ’’front  guests, reporters etc, — it was nice to see him with  ions  in the Space around us began, a remarkable  teria. For a while yet we shall only find meteorites
yard”’.  a, somewhat twisted, grin. There were no gimmicks  attitude prevailed within certain scientific circles in  that originate from planets, comets or asteroids, and
  Fred loosened up a little as we sped along the  with Fred.  regard to that Space.  ice which falls from the toilet-systems of airplanes.
road  Brussels-Antwerp. Patrick, who studied at  ”| saw a saucer close overhead some while ago. —  Earth was the navel of the Cosmos, around which
Brussels University, and who himself lectured  on  October 1966.
  There are a LOT of them around that area — |  had  and about which everything turned. The moon and
flying saucers, was a good driver, but fast!  my camera with me, this camera — and | ran off some  -*-
  the planets and the stars were hung in the sky for
  "Madeleine was at the airport as we left Washing-  film and  | felt so gosh-darned pleased with myself!  Earth’s sake, and between all the bodies outside of
ton. Oh, and Linda, her friend, was with her. You  D’you know something? | left the dust-cap on!”  Earth’s atmosphere was this great empty Space, in  Here,  in  a  report just  received  from  the  United
know, that young woman who had some sightings.  He told me of his talks with the Brothers.  which was to be found — absolutely nothing.  States,  is an important break-through into the area
She’s written to you, | think. A nice girl. There were  "D’you know, Ronald, when you’re with them, you  But the rockets told another story — they had been  of research mentioned in the afore-going article. With
two Brothers standing back a bit in the crowd. They  don't ASK questions. You don’t think of it. You just  out there. We can say then,  that  now  it is proven  precision timing, we now perceive that ’— through
weren't with Madeleine. Maybe she knew they were  listen. It’s as if you are not meant to ask of things  that Space is not empty. Among other things,  dust  condensation this dust eventually forms meteorites
there.”  maybe they don’t want you to know.”  has been registered. And it has become dusty in the  which are dense enough to be attracted to a pla-
  He went on talking about some of the Brothers he  Fred bit his lip thoughfully.  space-capsule  when  the  capsule  door  has_  stood  net —”.
had met. Ingrid joined in occasionally, her eyes  "One of them | can see several times a week. |  open.  From: Los Angeles  ’’Herald-Examiner’,  Sunday,
bright and shining.  know where he’s working. | can tell you what sort  It is proven also, that certain chemical  reactions  January 22nd 1967.
  "Oh, Ronald!’ she said, in her German-accented  of work he does, but not where.” Fred told me.  can, in the course of a few seconds, form solid
American, drawling the words. "If you only could  "It's only once in a while we have a chance to  matter. (Einstein).
meet them! There is this wonderful feeling of good-  talk. Maybe over a cup of coffee some place.”  As all the planets are born in the same Cosmos,  »L. A. Man finds Life in Space«
ness that seems to reach out to you.”  He paused, then went on.  this  means to say that the same elements or units
  THERE IS LIFE IN SPACE!
  Fred’s rather serious face  relaxed a  little  as  he  "This one’s from Venus.”  which make up the "'creation’’ are to be found  in
spoke. One could see he was no fanatic. Fred Steck-  Fred’s trip over had been delayed. Hans and | had  invisible form in this so-called empty Space.  It  Chlorophyll, key compound of life on earth, exists
ling  and  Ingrid  were  not  money-grabbing  ’’contact-  had to change our bookings. Fred had told me on  “only” needs the right chemical reaction to take  abundantly in outer space.
ees’’  making a fast buck. They spoke quietly, but  the trip up from the airport how someone, — he didn’t  place for the whole to take solid form and to build  These findings have been reported to a gathering
forcefully  at  times.  Perhaps  Fred  could  not  quite  know who — had contacted the bank where Fred had  up as planets, comets, meteorites or ice — or for that  of experts on Astronomy and Biodynamics meeting
shake off this feeling of having to convince someone  arranged credit for the trip.  matter, as many other things.  at the University of California at Berkeley by Dr.
all the time.  "| have to do it on the instalments,” he said. "A  Fred Johnson of Electro-Optical Systems in Pasa-
  It is therefore quite plain to see that science can,
  Ronald,” he said, after a rather long, somewhat  cook doesn’t earn all that much money.”’ Fred works  dena.
  and must, soon add a new chapter to that book about
tired silence. They’d been travelling for many, many  at an hotel in Virginia, near where he lives.  Based on his findings, Dr. Johnson told the Berke-
  the ’’factual’”’ conditions in Space, which it is writing
hours. ’’Ronald, do you know, it’s just as if they have  The strange thing was that Fred had previously  ley colloquium the possibility that man is not alone
  at this time. In this book’ it will be stated that,
our frequencies. | had a birthday a while back —”  had credit arrangements with the same bank,. and  in the universe is excellent.
  under certain conditions, solid matter is formed in
Ingrid was about to burst in with wife-like enthusiasm  had had no bother. Maybe someone had tried to stop  The physicist, astronomer and biochemist told the
  empty Space — as well as much else — matter that
but Fred’s voice stopped her. ’’l had a birthday a  his trip to Europe. It had taken several days to clear  Berkeley sessions, which opened Friday, that after
  can later fall onto this planet or others as ’’shootingwhile back,"’ Fred went on. ’’Ingrid and | were wat-  up the matter.  13 years of research he had been able to identify
  stars’ or as ice from an airplane’s toilet.
ching T.V. | don’t remember the show. Suddenly —”  He was speaking first in Antwerp, staying with  interstellar dust and had found it is composed largand  again  Ingrid was bursting with  agreement,  May for some days, then The Hague, then Frankfurt  And it will be enormously difficult, — yes,  almost  ely of the solid molecular substance chlorophyll and
”_ suddenly it went doot-di-di-doot-doot, on the T.V.  and Mannheim, then in Austria — Vienna and Linz —  impossible, — to differentiate between what are rem-  not ice or graphite as had been previously believed.
just like that, maybe ten or a dozen times. Doot-di-  then on to West Berlin for the last six days to stay  ains of solid bodies, such as planets, comets or  "There is no reason to believe that we on this
di-doot-doot. Ingrid and | just looked at each other —  with his family.  asteroids, and what is produced by some other  planet are unique’, Dr. Johnson told the Heraldand then we both DASHED out onto the porch.”  Whether Fred was helped with money at the Ger-  means. One might point to evidence of bacteria, but  Examiner.  ’’There  is  very  good  evidence,  on  the
  Patrick swerved among the traffic on a bumpy  man or Austrian  lectures,  |  don’t know.  |  know he  this just will not do, because bacteria can be gath-  other hand, that there may be similar forms of  life
patch of road.  received nothing  in Antwerp and Den  Haag, except  ered up from anywhere in the Cosmos. For example,  throughout the universe’”’.
  "There over the house was the saucer. It just  hospitality from good friends. That certainly did not  our  planet,  just  the  same  as  other  planets,  has,  Dr. Johnson reported that although interstellar dust
swayed there, back and forward. Then it seemed to  pay the Stecklings fare across the Atlantic.  during its journey through space, trailed behind itself  is very small with each grain having an average
swing down low as the light showed from the porch  Fred’s first lecture was on the evening of our arr-  a long tail of dust and bacteria. This dust and these  density of 10 to 26 grams per cubic centimeter, he
and then shot off over in the direction of Washing-  ival in Antwerp, at May Morlet’s home. Of the 50-60  bacteria are caught up at some time or another by  speculates that through condensation this dust eventon Airport.”  in the audience, which included reporters, | noticed  other heavenly bodies, in the same manner that we  tually forms  meteorites which  are dense  enough  to
  Ingrid couldn’t hold herself any longer. ’’And do  a young woman. | shall not describe her.  collect dust and bacteria from other worlds.  be attracted to a planet.
you know, Ronald!’ she burst in, Madeleine had the  Later that night, in fact at 3.30 in the morning, —  In fact, we need not go to all the great amount of
same thing happen on her birthday! Linda and some  we had sat talking, all of May’s house-guests, until  trouble that we do, to sterilize the space-ships and  SIMPLE PLANTS.
more friends were just being seen off from the house  the small hours, as we were to do every night of our  probes which are to be sent up; — our bacteria has  These meteorites, he said, then deposit the life
and they called out to Madeleine to look. And there  visit — | walked with Hans Petersen around some  long been present on our sister planets and many  substance chlorophyll and, as on earth, undergo the
136  ufo contact  ufo contact  117

the  principles  involved  in  weight-distribution  and  sceptics will not now refrain from purchasing and  quiet, deserted, leafy avenues near to May’s house.  Any Monday would be fine for showing the film,
surface manipulation, i.e. expert engineers producing  reading this excellent book, we would like to conc-  Hans had suggested a walk before turning in. It was  | am looking forward to your answer,
the revolutionary Hovercraft.  lude with an excerpt from the summing-up by Leo-  our first opportunity to talk alone together since our  sincerely,  Fred Steckling.”
  "Some  of  my  readers will  have  been  way  ahead  nard G. Cramp himself.  meeting in Denmark three or four weeks before.  UNQUOTE.
of me in these past assessments and no doubt will  "Out of the confusion and the shadow surrounding  He also wanted to tell me something. About a  Similar letters were sent to Senator Clinton P.
have anticipated my next intention. Yet others will  this most enigmatic of flying saucer contact stories,  young lady of rather special appearance who had,  Anderson, of the Senate Space and Aeronautics
be a trifle impatient that the following correlation  emerges one or two, but nevertheless very important  during the course of the evening, moved out of the  Committee, and to Dr. Paul D. Lowman Jnr. at the
should be made. But | must stress, | try very hard  facts.  audience and was sitting on a settee very close to  National  Aeronautics and  Space Administration.
not to be biased, science is far more interesting  (a)  Adamski  type  saucers  are  not  uncommon  the speaker’s table. Just before the guests left, —  (NASA).
left as it is. Therefore | am sincere in my next anal-  among UFO reports.  some of them were unknown to May Morlet — the  The reply from Dr. Lowman reads: (see inside back
ysis. | trust the reader will be, too. | have purposely  (b)  On purely engineering grounds the configurat-  young woman spoke a few words with Hans.  cover).
chosen the following title for the evidence which |  ion of the "scout ship’ offers the best all-  "NATIONAL AERONAUTICS AND SPACE
  ”"Ron’,  said  Hans,  "|  am  wondering  about that
hope may help shed some truer light on one who  round compromise which could embody the  ADMINISTRATION
  young woman.”
may be a very maligned man.”  UNQUOTE.  functions required by the gravitational propul-
  Some days after Fred and Ingrid and Glenn had  GODDARD SPACE FLIGHT CENTER
  sion theory.  Greenbelt, Maryland 20771
  Yes, the ’’very maligned man” is George Adamski.  left Vienna for Berlin, for avery short family re-union,
  (c)  Adamski’s  description  of  inside  a saucer  is  FILE.17232
  12 years ago Leonard G. Cramp produced the  not inconsistent with the theory, on the cont-  the Co-workers received a letter from our Austrian
  Mr. Fred Steckling,  Feb. 20 1967
orthographic projections which showed how young  rary, theory seems to support it.  friend and Co-worker, Dora Bauer, who told us of the
Stephen Darbishire’s ’’Coniston’”’ saucer, as photo-  (d) Thus on these grounds alone | for one feel  lectures Fred had given in Vienna and Linz. She also
  Alexandria, Virginia 22312.
graphed, was identical in shape and proportion to  inclined to accept the first part of his exper-  wrote that Fred had told her of two space people,
  Dear Mr. Steckling:
Adamski’s classic ''scout-craft’’.  ience as fact, and in my opinion any incons-  a Brother and a Sister, who were at May’s house on
  Thank you very much for your letter and for your
  Today,  in  his  book  "Piece  For  A  Jig-saw’’,  Mr.  istencies which appear in his subsequent  that first evening - -
  offer to show us your film. | am not really qualified
Cramp produces startling evidence of a highly-tech-  claims are insufficient to invalidate the prev-  And going through Germany he had filmed a
  to pass judgement on it, but it would be good to
nical nature which shows how, following along purely  ious conclusions.”  strange formation in the sky. It was on September
  have the people here at Goddard who are, look at
engineering  principles  as  a  result  of  analyses  of  7th 1966.
  "PIECE FOR A JIG-SAW” — 27 sh. 6 d.  it. May | suggest, then, that you give Mr. Penn Stehundreds of reported saucer-sightings, with accomp-
  SOMERTON PUBLISHING COMPANY,
  In February this year | received photostats of corr-  vens, phone — -, a call. He will make an appointanying detail of manoeuvre and flight patterns, he
  espondence and some still pictures from the film  ment for you to come out to Goddard and show the
arrives at the ideal form, in all  respects, for a visit-  COWES. ISLE OF WIGHT.
  that Fred Steckling took whilst travelling by train  Photographic Branch and me your film. Unfortunating  ’’saucer’. The saucer he finally produces,  after
  between Mannheim and Frankfurt, in West Germany.  ely we have no 8 mm projector here, so | must ask
progressive  line-drawings  and  photographs  by  the
  The stills he had obtained by photographing from  you  to  bring  your  own.  Thank  you  again  for your
score,  is the Adamski scout-craft.
  the screen, he said. He did not dare have the stills  offer.
  In his concluding chapter, not only does the author
  professionally made. (Both George Adamski and Ma-  Sincerely yours,
quote details of engineering data provided by Adam-

  Miscellaneous
  deleine Rodeffer have had "’accidents’’ happen to  signed.  Paul D. Lowman, Jr.
ski  in  his  controversial books,  but Mr. Cramp  con-
  film in the past. A greater part of the Rodeffer close-  Geochemistry Laboratory
fesses that, until the time of writing this last chapter,
  up saucer film was stolen from an hotel room when  Laboratory for Theoretical Studies.”
he  had  not yet  read  completely  Adamski’s  ’’Inside
  G.A. was taking the original to be copied. Copies  UNQUOTE.
The Space Ships’!  Realising perhaps certain read-
  of his own film loaned to T.V. net-works and others
ers’  scepticism  about this belated admission, Mr.  Of the visit, which took place in Building A.l. at
  have returned badly disfigured with chemicals, "with
Cramp goes  on  to  describe points  outlined  in that  10.30 a.m. on February 27th 1967, Fred said this:
book  concerning  Adamski’s
  the  alleged  trips  in  Out of the clear, blue sky  great regret —’’)
  A letter from Fred to Thomas G. Corbin, Major-
  ”"_ We took Madeleine along so the 22 NASA offscout-craft, whereby his (Cramp’s) own scientifically  icials could see G.A.’s and her film, too. They seem-
  by MAJOR H. C. PETERSEN.  General U.S.A.F. Director Legislative Liaison, Deparrived-at data receives startling corroboration!  ed to be quite impressed, but would not make an
  artment of the Air Force, Washington, D.C., read:  open statement concerning the film, naturally. The
  “At this juncture | can almost hear many an Adam-  WE ALL KNOW of accounts of objects which,
ski sceptic breathing a sigh of incredulity, hardly  during the past couple of hundred years, have been  "Dear Sir,  2 hour meeting took place in Building A.I. They
able to believe that | should dare to include such  reported as falling down from the sky, — and, often  treated us very nice and seemed to know much more
  While  with my family in Germany September 7,
material in a semi-technical work of this nature.”  enough, from a clear, cloudless sky.  of what we had to show and tell. One thing they
  1966, | had the rare opportunity to film a Armada”
Unquote.  Scientists and other experts have sought to ex-  said, however, and that is concerning Dr. Hynek. His
  of about 40 to 50 UFO’s apearing and disappearing
  With  many  detailed  international  sighting  reports  plain such ’’falls’’ as meteorites, meteors, or — now-  swamp-gas explanations are nonsense, we were told.
  in the middle of the blue sky.
analysed  scientifically,  with  his  own  photographed  adays — as something in connection with flying, ato-  "But despite the evidence of the 3 films they still
  The 23 feet of Kodakcolour film were taken out
experiments showing the intensive study he has made  mic tests or the like.  would like to have more positive proof, we were told,
  of an open window of a speeding express train,
of all aspects of saucer’ manoeuvres and flight, and  In the book "Le Matin des Magiciens”’, by the  for it still does not prove these ships to be extra-
  Mannheim-Frankfurt, approximately at 11.40 a.m.
accompanied by scores of finely-executed line-draw-  Frenchmen, Louis Pauwels and Jacques Bergier, vol-  terrestrial, as one official put it. However, he was
ings,  Leonard  Cramp  provides food  for thought  for  ume One gives reference to 40,000 notations of falls  My camera is an automatic 8 mm Revere power  not able to tell us just where these strange crafts
all those of an open mind.  of such extraordinary things.  zoom, 30 mm lens. The objects, which can be seen,  come from otherwise. But they were quite impressed
  Here,  biased  or un-biased as  we  may  seem,  we  If we concern ourselves solely with two groups of  look like white cigarettes on the motion-picture be-  about the exact formation of the many ships on the
would  like to  recommend to other biased  and  unb-  objects — meteorites and ice — then we find ourselves  hind trees, railroad stations and powerlines, which  film of Sept. 7th. 66. Reflection, any fake, and cloud
iased UFO researchers one of the best flying saucer  in an area where science and various other expert  were flying by and blocking their sight on occasions  formation, including Skyriders, was ruled out. It left
contributions since "Inside The Space Ships’! That  sources are quite positive in their conclusions.  while filming. This rules out light reflections from  only 23 feet of UFO's.
the author  is  not  biased  can  be witnessed  by the  Meteoric stones originate from comets and planets  any excusable source.  "They said nothing about G.A.’s film and on Ma-
360 pages of this book which are not about George  which have disintegrated, or from larger or smaller  | would be willing indeed to show this rare film  deleine’s they commented, — the ship is smaller, and
Adamski.  asteroids. The ice comes from airplanes — either  (personally) to Air Force officials here in Washing-  anticipated it to be about 27 feet in diameter. They
  In  expressing  the  hope  that  certain  UFOlogist  formed outwardly or from the toilet.  ton D.C., if they are interested.  were  interested  in  how  far  the  trees  in  the  back-
118  ufo contact  ufo contact

ground were and all in all said, to be convinced that  UFO  investigation  study, — R.C.) — and  send them  At that time the Air Force termed the Heflin pictwhat we had shown them are ships of extraterrestrial  some pictures.  ure a hoax.
origin they needed more positive proof or evidence.  "Madeleine’s and G.A.’s films were already known  The ’’Bluebook”’ report said Heflin’s photo did not

  Literature
One person came up with the scout being a volks-  to them — from T.V. — and no comment was made on  correspond to his description of the  round, saucerwagen, you know how they have to make jokes. But  them. They seemed to know all three of us — Ingrid  like object.
we were treated very nice and in respect, — one  was there — they gave this impression.  But  since  then  the  Air  Force  has  commissioned
person said to Ingrid, you have something there, —  "The  Colonel  said:  ’’What  about  the  scoutships  the independent study by the University of Colorado
meaning the films —  we  are supposed to  have in  Dayton?’’  so we  ans-  at Boulder.
 "| could see that they had much knowledge, but  wered,  ’’What about  and  how about  it?’’  They did  From: "San Francisco Chronicle’,
could not give themselves away. They did not rid-  not confirm anything or otherwise. But here too we  Friday, March 10, 1967.  »Piece for a jig-saw«
icule us, nor the films, nor the whole UFO idea. |  were treated  respectfully, and  returned the same to  Credit: Theodore Gray Hullett, San Francisco,
did not go to NASA to convince them, but to cons-  them -.”  California, U.S.A.  By LEONARD G. CARMP., M.S.I.A. A.R.Ae.S.
ult them.”  UNQUOTE.  *  author of ’’Space, Gravity and the
  He added:  Flying Saucer.”
  Later, |  received a fuller description  of events.
  Two PCs spot a »saucers«
  "This meeting with NASA was a  different matter
altogether than the Senate Space committee 2 years  "When  |  took  the  film  September 7th,  we  were  Here is a book about ’’flying saucers’? which can
ago with Madeleine and Ingrid, where they received  between Mannheim and Frankfurt traveling North. The  be of immense interest to both the »converted”’ and
  Two  policemen  saw  an  oval-shaped  object  flash
more "Hell’’ than anything else —”  time was about 11.45 a.m., no clouds, about seventy  to the ’’open-minded”’, to the lay-person looking for
  through the sky yesterday. The officers said the
  degrees, Fahrenheit. Although power-lines and trees  more corroboration to back up his beliefs in the
  UNQUOTE.  saucer-like object flew over Strood, Kent, at about
  were flying by, while | took the film, If there was a  reality of visiting space-ships, and to the technically-
  1,000 feet — and had a tail of blue and silvery stars.
  On  March 20th,  Fred  sent me  a  photostat  letter  station it surely swished by so fast that it was imp-  minded man who may well be rather surprised at the
  Later there was a similar report from Sevenoaks.
from the UFO spokesman at the  Pentagon  in Wa-  ossible to make out any signs, etc. In this case you  wealth of detail of a highly technical nature included
  (Kent.)
shington D.C. (see back pages)  have to take my word for it. | was already before  in this work.
  Police at Rochester said: ’’The authorities have
  alerted of the Brothers before the film, and became  Leonard Cramp, who for many years has worked
  "DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE  been told.”
  aware  of  a  group  of 10 to 12 cigarette  shaped  in both aerodynamics and, more recently, with the
  From: "Daily Sketch’, London, March 25th, 1967.
  Washington 20330  objects  high  in  the  sky (12 o’clock up.) |  jumped  new design principles of the Hovercraft, has succ-
Office Of The Secretary  back to grab the camera, a 8 mm Revere, 30 mm  eeded in writing a bookunderstood, by any person
  *
  Mar 17 1967  powerzoom, Chicago build and opened the window  of normal intelligence who can read the English
  all the way to eliminate any reflections and started  language.
Dear Mr. Steckling:
  filming. All in all, 6 groups of ten to twelve space-  »The flying saucer that  Piece For A Jig-saw’’ does, in truth, offer a piece
  Your letter concerning your unidentified flying
  craft appeared one after another and moved along
object (UFO) film finally reached my office — -— -
  the sky like Dolphins in the water, as an example.  Andrew saw in Stamford Sky«  — a very large piece — of that enigmatic jig-saw
  puzzle which has undulated and returned along 180
Office of Information for Project Blue Book, the Air
  Appearing and disappearing, the armada traveled to  degrees through head-lines of the world’s press for
Force UFO program.  Andrew,  the  eight-year-old  son  of  Mr. and  Mrs.
  about 9 o’clock (position) and disappeared complet-  T.  H.  Hyde,  the past 20 years. Cramp himself has worked on
  The Air Force would be very interested in review-  of  59  Scotgate,  Stamford,  claims  to
  ely, giving me the privilege to take about 23 feet of  material for this book for over half that time. It is
ing your film. If you would get in touch with me at  have seen a ’’flying saucer’ over Stamford on Tues-
  Kodak color film.  12 years since he submitted to the public Space,
the Pentagon, we will arrange a showing for any  day. Aug. 2. He was in his back garden at the time,
  "There were quite some people on the train, some  Gravity and the Flying Saucer’; — this book is a
Monday which is convenient for you. My number is  and this is how he sketched and described what he
  of them looking out of their windows, becoming  natural and elevating follow-up.
0----or0----—  saw:
  aware of the objects. As we could see they all had  "| saw this object in the sky twice this morning  Written in a style which is as open and as lacking
  Thank you for offering to show your film;  |  am  big question-marks on their faces. They had never
  between about half-past ten and a quarter to eleven.  in pomposity as the author himself, one finds a pattlooking forward to hearing from you.  seen  anything  like this  before.  |  might add,  there  It was going very quickly above the clouds. The  ern developing from each chapter to the next, as he
  was  no fear on their faces.  Ingrid  and  myself also
  Sincerely  first time | saw it, it was travelling in a N. W.  takes us from his brief but concise "background
  Glenn, we could hardly believe it, ever to be pres-
  direction, and then about ten minutes later it came  material’? of orthodox aerodynamics, curves into a
  signed. George P. Freeman, Jr.  ented with such an opportunity of taking that many
  back.  high trajectory through the experimental X-15 and
  Lt. Colonel, USAF.  ships on film and all at once. We stood on the win-
  "It was then  going  in  a  S.  E.  direction,  and  it  the family of rockets, and into the deep blue. One
  Chief, Civil Branch  dow, Ingrid saying only, ’’oh, my God” and our every  made  no  sound.  the  shape was  round,  with  black  is almost shocked to find with what ease Cramp
  Community Relations Division  hair was standing up at this wonderful sight. We will
  circles  looking  like  ship’s  port-holes  round  the  brings us down — not in a capsule supported by
  Office of Information.  never forget this experience and are surely grateful
  middle. There were little things looking like landing  great billowing parachutes, but gently landing in a
Mr. Fred Steckling,  for it. —”
  wheels on the bottom.  field, any field, ready for instant take-off to a far-off
  UNQUOTE.
  "There was a cloud of yellow stuff coming out  hovering mother-ship.
  | wrote to Fred, asking him if | could use his pict-
  of the back and there was a ring round the middle  At least, the mother-ship is there by implication,
Alexandria, Virginia 22312.”
  ures  and
  correspondence
  of the object.”  because Mr. Cramp, as he says, having ’’set myself
  UNQUOTE.  in  UFO  CONTACT.  He
  wrote back:  UNQUOTE.  the task of discovering the truth as an engineer’,
  Fred wrote of the visit:
  From: A Stamford paper, Lincs. England.  arrives, after a volume full of investigation and ex-
  "Our  Pentagon  visit  was  Monday  March  20th  at  "You can go ahead and use what you feel is right
  August 1966.  perimentation, at the last chapter which is entitled:
2 p.m. at Colonel Freeman’s office. — Madeleine  concerning my visit to NASA and the pictures —
came along — Several high commission officers rev-  "As you know, my work in this cause has no conn-  "Vindication Of A Scout Ship.”
iewed the Sept. 7th film three times, and Colonel  ections  in  pleasing  my  Ego,  and therefore  it does  The last paragraph of the second from last chapter
Freeman stated: ’’This is the best film I’ve seen yet.”  not matter to me if my name is used or not. Import-
  A friend is a person who knows all about  might  well sum up a very large part of the UFO
and ’’| have never seen anything like this before.”  ant is the work, not us. —
  you — and still likes you. Elbert Hubbard.  story. It also sums up the author, a man who succ-
He told me to inform the UFO investigation comm-  "We all know George Adamski has given much to  eeded in forming a large group of UFO enthusiasts
ittee in Colorado — (— the new University of Colorado  this world  in knowledge and information and |  feel  from a very hard core of technology, men who know
134  ufo contact  ufo contact  119

ities of the dark shape behind them. There was a  and only a few metres above the surface of Mexico  that the people should become aware first of his work  Second,  — you  are  invited  to  look  again  at  the
tiny white light behind which did not seem to be att-  Valley. Note at the bottom of the picture the power-  and  contacts.  When  your  readers  have  become  picture which is painted for you in these sequences
ached to the object in any way; but as the night was  lines, which give an idea of how low the saucer was.  acquainted with the idea of the brothers being under  of events.
very dark, she admits that this could also have been  Dr. Lanuza has the negatives in his possession,  us  this  very  moment  and  that  everyone  has  the  GEORGE  ADAMSKI  took  his  story  and  his  films
a star. The colored lights were not blinking, and the  which have been carefully examined by photo ex-  chance to talk to them if he becomes aware of them,  to ANYONE - including authority — and was prepared
object seemed not to move, although she of course  perts, who stated that no fake was involved.”  then you  may talk about my contacts in connection  to face all criticism and expert analysis.
was moving towards it in her car. She described the  eK i  with G.A.  Ronald,  |  cannot tell you what to do, for  MADELEINE RODEFFER was enabled to take closeobject (which, she admits, she saw very indistinctly  you must use your own judgement in this matter.  up shots of a flying  saucer over her garden. This
  Also in EL HERALDO”.
in the almost complete darkness), as a black wing-  When ever you feel to use it then go ahead and do  was arranged with the Brothers, and she was expectlike thing which made no noise. Then she suddenly  Flying saucers are seen in clear daylight  so. | am not afraid to face the people or what ever  ing them.  She has shown this film,  with G.A.’s, on
thought ’’Surely it can’t be a plane, this low. Per-  comes with it, neither is Madeleine. —’’  nation-wide net-works, — she has faced the officials
haps it is a flying saucer’. The size of the 2 colored  They were observed near Montevideo.  UNQUOTE.  on Capitol Hill. She has met the Brothers.
lights was small, about the size of ordinary car  Montevideo (UPI) — Unidentified Flying Objects  FRED STECKLING  has taken a unique movie-film
blinker-lights. If the witness had stopped to investig-  were observed in this capital in clear daylight, stated  That is the story of the Quiet Contacts.  which  has  impressed  NASA’s photographic  experts
ate, this could have been a most important sighting.  the director of the Astronomical Observatory ANTA-  Why have | told you all this? Because | know that  and  the  men  at  the  Pentagon.  He  has  met  the
Unfortunately, she preferred to continue on her way,  RES, Juan Reyes Febles, who succeeded in taking  Brothers.
  those who read these words will feel the sincerity
and thus lost a great opportunity.  21 color photos of said objects.  Can it be CO-INCIDENCE all the time? Can they
  of Fred and Itigrid Steckling, and of Madeleine Rod-
  Thursday April 13th around 8.15 p.m., Victoria’s  He added that from one saucer were ejected into  effer.  FAKE  unique and impressive evidence ALL THE
lights suddenly all dimmed for a couple of seconds,  space some smaller objects of the same shape  The sceptics talk always of people "making a fast  TIME?
and at that moment, witnesses in town chanced to  whose colors varied from blue to violet and orange.
  buck’. Maybe they are right about some. But not  At this point | might add that whilst George Adamsee a colored object streak across the sky. The  According to Mr. Reyes and other witnesses’ obs-  ski was on his 1959 world-tour, many separate witn-
  about the Stecklings or Madeleine. They are losing
Press tried to ’explain’ this dimming to lightning up  ervations is was an oval UFO seen at a height of  money fast, but they are doing the job that George  esses in Australia and New Zealand reported activitat Campbell River, some 200 miles away: this, how-  about 6 km to the North of the City. It had an ind-
  Adamski left them to do, with steadfastness and cou-  ies and formations of saucers over some of the very
ever, would seem unconvincing, in view of the num-  ented rim. One could see a dark dome with a dis-  cities and towns where G.A.
  rage.  lectured.
erous past cases where a certain type of UFO has  tinctly white rim and one open porthole in the upper  What is the lesson from this?
  part.
  All this is for the record.
repeatedly caused the dimming, and indeed the  First, — you will make up your own minds as to the
  Finally Reyes said: ’’It could be proved that it was  As  Fred  Steckling  wrote  in  simple  words  which
blackout, of electric lights in widely separated areas.  truth of their stories, — as George Adamski said so
  a ’'mothersaucer”, i.e., a giant space-ship which  held a world of meaning:
It is also well-known to researchers that other types  often: ’’l’m not here to convince you, — just to tell
of UFO’s do not affect electrical installation: on the  ejected from its interior other little ships that shot  you.”
  IMPORTANT IS THE WORK — NOT US.
other hand, it is possible that all UFO’s may have  away at a vertiginous speed”’.
the ability to affect such installations, or to refrain  The sighting was made the day before yesterday
from doing so, at will.  and lasted for one hour and 40 minutes.”
  (We should remind readers that this sighting was
  Report from: P. M. H. Edwards, Victoria, B.C.,
  made from an astronomical observatory, and that an
  Canada.
  open porthole at a height of 6000 metres or 20,000
  Credit: Tommy Helmer,
  feet  could well be in view with certain types of

  UFO-PICTURES
  Bromma, Stockholm, Sweden.
  telescopes. Whether it was in fact a porthole that
  ae elas
  was open at that cold height and in that thin air
  might be a point of conjecture perhaps, but we are
  From: The Mexican newspaper ’’EL HERALDO”,  not reckoning with terrestrial aircraft here, of course.
  February 26th, 1967.  — Editor.)
  (There are three photographs of flying saucers  Credit: Mrs. Maria Cristina de Rueda,
produced in the article, which unfortunately we  IGAP-MEXICO.
cannot reproduce here. However, here are the capt-  Translation: Mrs. Dora Bauer, IGAP-AUSTRIA.
ions to the photographs. — Ed.)
  =
  Nr. 1. This photograph of a strange space object
was taken by Dr. Jose A. Lanuza, professor at the
Sorbonne in Paris and at the Autonomous National
  »Convincing« UFO pictures
University of Mexico, when he travelled aboard an  SANTA ANA. — A University of Colorado professor
airplane of the Compafiia Mexicana de Aviacién from  conducting a study of unidentified flying objects says
Mexico City to Guadalajara.’ (— It will be rememb-  that "Photographic evidence of UFOs, when availered by some readers that many times George Adam-  able, is very convincing.”
ski spoke of a saucer base in the mountains around  Robert J. Low, project co-ordinator of a Govern-
Guadalajara. — Ed.)  ment-sponsored UFO study, is in Santa Ana to study
  Nr. 2. "Dr. Lanuza was able to take this picture  a controversial 1965 UFO photo previously discreditabove the Valley of Mexico. It shows in our sky the  ed by the Air Force.
presence of another flying object. It is of a circular  Low termed the picture, taken by Rex Heflin of
shape and has in its upper part a transparent dome.  Santa Ana, as ’’among the top four or five’ items of
The ship seemed to be made of some metal of  photographic evidence of UFOs.
aluminium color.”  Heflin,  37,  a  project  inspector  for  the  Orange
  Nr. 3. ’’This UFO photo was taken by Dr. Lanuza  County Highway Department, took his picture August
at a distance of about 100 metres from the machine  3, 1965, just off the Santa Ana freeway.
  ufo contact  ufo contact  133

  "MANY  TIMES  |  HAVE  SEEN  FLYING  DISCS  took a few minutes to transfer from Army to Air
  FOLLOWING  AND  OVERTAKING  MISSILES  IN  Force communications, the pilots were notified of
  FLIGHT AT THE EXPERIMENTAL BASE AT WHITE  the UFOs. They circled around, but none  of  the
  SANDS,  NEW  MEXICO,  WHERE,  AS  IS  KNOWN,  pilots was able to see anything unusual.
  THE  FIRST AMERICAN ATOM BOMB  WAS TRIED  Missile firings at WSMR were checked. There were
  OUT,”  COLONEL MACLAUGHLIN.  none at this time. There was little cloud cover during
  Missile expert.  the half hour involved and, at this time of day, it
  These still photographs are  (Statement in 1949.)  would  be  impossible to  see a meteor. The  objects
  taken from the  screen  pro-  were moving  much faster than a balloon.
  = fet
  jection of the 8 mm colour  One WSMR individual said the UFOs were tracked
  film of september 7th 1966.  on  radar. There is no accurate estimate of the

  Taken with  a REVERE 8 mm  29 sight UFO‘s over White  number  of
  one — may have been
  objects  spotted.
  more.
  There  may  have  been

  cine-camera,  automatic  30
  mm  powerzoom  lens,  by  Sands Range  There is no indication when the Pentagon will
  release any information on the sightings — if ever.
  Fred Steckling of Alexandria,  by Dorrance Guy.  From: The El Paso Times, El Paso, Texas.
  Virginia,  U.S.A.
  Alamogordo, N.M. — At least 29 White Sands Missile  Sunday, March 5th, 1967.
  Range personnel were eyewitnesses to one or more
  Unidentified  Flying  Objects  between  10.30  and  11  COMMENT: We understand from our source of in-
  a.m. Thursday.  formationthat this news item appeared only in El
  News  concerning the UFOs  has  been  cutoff  by  Paso, Texas. Inquiries showed that the Air Force
  orders from the  Pentagon.  had stopped the incident being reported in the
  All service personnel and civilians working for the  national newspapers. To quote the above news report:

  services  have been  forbidden to  discuss the sight-  "There is no indication when the Pentagon will

  ings.  release any information on the sightings — if ever.’’
  An  investigation  is  under  way  at  Holloman  Air  UNQUOTE.
  Force Base,  N.M., with  Maj. James Stephens,  UFO  And so, life goes on...
  officer, in charge. He, too, is not allowed to discuss  ast SP acs
  the sightings.
  Terry  Clark,  president  and
  radio station KALG, Alamogordo, said the UFOs first
  general  manager  of
  UFO‘s over British Columbia
The 23 feet of colour film  were  spotted  near  Ruidoso,  N.M.,  then  went  near  On April 14th, 1967, at about 8.05 p.m., lan Squire

was exposed from a speed-  Holloman AFB, then south toward Orogrande, N.M.,  and  Scott McNeill (two boys aged about 14) were
  and  then  disappeared  over the  Sacramento  Moun-  on their cycles going along Cedar Hill Crossroads,
ing train travelling from
Mannheim to Frankfurt in  tains.  Virginia, B.C. They crossed over Cadboro Bay Road
  Information officers at Holloman AFB  and WSMR  into  Upper  Terrace  Road  (Uplands  residential
  West Germany.
  were contacted by Clark and he was told the Flight  district),and proceeded down into Ripon Road as
  Safety Office at Kirtland AFB at Albuquerque, N.M.,  far as the Circle. From there, they saw a red and a
  would handle the investigation. Kirtland would make  green light hovering over what they thought was

  no comment exept that all information would have to  probably the area of the Uplands Golf Clubhouse
  come from the Pentagon.  on Cadboro Bay Road. They were on their way down
  Clark called the assigned number at the Pentagon  to the Yacht Club, and didn’t stop to investigate,
  and was told that no information was available.  however. The two lights were not blinking, and
  Capt.  Frank J.  Morris,  director of  information  at  seemed stationary (but it must be remembered that
  Holloman AFB, Saturday night said that Maj. Step-  on their cycles, they were moving, which prevented
  hens  is  handling  the  investigation.  He  said  the  re-  theirbeing certain about this last point). The sky
  sults would be sent to Wright-Patterson AFB, Ohio,  was dark and starry: there was hardly any wind at
  and from there would  go to the  Pentagon.  He said  all.
  no information wculd be released except through the  At 8.10 p.m. the same evening, i.e. five or six min-
  This aerial ’’armada” of  Public Information Office under the Secretary of the  utes later, lan Squire’s grandmother (name withneld
  UFO’s is shown in impress-  Air Force.  at  witness’  request)  was  driving  uphill  along  Cad-
  ive formation in the cloud-  Neither WSMR  nor  Holloman  AFB  personnel  has  boro  Bay  Road  southwards  towards  the  northern
  less sky.  any authority in the case.  gates  into The  Uplands district, when suddenly she
  Clark said eyewitnesses, when they could be ident-  saw  a red and a  green  light over the  roadway,  i.e.
  Shown to photographic  ified,  would  not  allow  use  of  their  names  because  higher than  the  height of a very tall  tree.  The wit-
  experts of NASA.  of the Air Force regulation.  ness,  who  is  personally  known  to  me  through her
  Of the film, Pentagon UFO  However, these witnesses estimated that the ’’silv-  daughter  and  grandson,
  unfortunately did not stop
  spookesman said: ”This is  ery discs’  were flying  at  an  altitude  of ’’20,000 to  to investigate. Instead, she continued on right under-
  the best film I’ve seen yet!”  25,000 feet’  and moving at a speed of ’’approximat-  neath  the  object  which,  she  said,  seemed  to  be
  ely 2,000 miles per hour.”  spread entirely over the width of the wide roadway.
  There  were  several  Air  Force  planes  in  the  air  The  two  colored  lights  seemed  to  be shining  only
  over WSMR  at the  time  of the  sightings. While  it  forwards, and to be from 4 to 6 feet from the extrem-
132  ufo contact  ufo contact  121

LIFE’S GIFTS.  Reports  of  flying  saucers  sighted  in  the  Soviet  The newspaper accounts which claimed | told rep-
  Each of us receives life’s gifts on Earth. A belief
in a continued spiritual life after the comparitively
  Union, in the Caucasus
  were ridiculed here.
  and  in  Central  Asia,  also
  What Adamski  orters of the forthcoming meeting with Queen Juliana
  were entirely false.  One thing  is  certain:  the press
short time of 70 years of physical life here on Earth,  Then for several years the Soviet press remained  was furious. The reporters could not get any informcompared with the endless cycle of eternity, makes
the actions of the moment an investment with far-
  silent on the whole question; the Cmena article show-
  ed that the UFO issue is being reopened, this time  Said...  ation from me so they fabricated stories to save face
  (and perhaps to protect their jobs!). Newspapers all
reaching consequences.  as an object of serious scientific study.  over  the  United  States  copied  these  false  reports
  The certainty that Man can choose between good  Zigel was identified as one of the editors  of  a  GEORGE ADAMSKI WAS MANY TIMES ACC-  and added comments as they passed them on.
and evil should lead him nearer to his Creator. Fur-  book, ’’Inhabited Cosmos,” being prepared for publi-  USED of being a charlatan, — that is, a person who  An  article  in  the  Los  Angeles  Examiner  of  May
ther, it should lead to an understanding that Man’s  cation here. The book will discuss the possibility of  pretends to have more knowledge or skill than he  19th,  entitled  ‘In  Dutch  On  Saucer  Discussion,”
life here and later, is more likely to depend on his  living  beings  in  space and  efforts  to  communicate  does have, — an impostor or a cheat. He has been  stated:  ’’The  press  has  given  Adamski,  from  Los
relation to the spiritual than to the scientific.  with them.  called a faker, because he has produced photo-  Angeles,  a  chilly  reception.  The  Catholic  People’s
  Our decisions now will unavoidably determine fut-  The chief editor of the book is B. P. Konstantinov,  graphs of so-called space-ships which he claimed  Party  newspaper  De  Volkskrant,  said,  for  example:
ure actions. Nature around us will hold more unsolv-  who, as a vice president of the Soviet Academy of  to have taken himself. He was a liar, taking money  ‘We are not opposed to a court jester on the green
ed than solved mysteries. But science has won itself  Science,  is  one  of  this  country’s  most  respected  from the credulous with stories of fantasy, saying  lawns of the Royal Palace, provided he is not taken
sufficient power so that it can open up a Golden  scientists.  they were true.  for an astronomical philosopher.’ ”
Age for Mankind, providing this power is used for  In  his  magazine  article,  Zigel  said  the  ’’Angel  Most of these names were given to him by people  Soon after the newspaper De Volkskrant criticized
good — or destroy it, if the power is used negatively.  Echo,” a UFO detected by radar, is constantly obs-  who would not have had the courage to say it to his  my interview with Queen Juliana, several other Dutch
  Religion’s ethical guide-lines are the bonds that  erved by scientists at the Central Aerological Obs-  face, or within the presence of a lawyer. If Adamski  papers followed suit and began to speak in a  critical
can hold civilisation together. Without it Man cannot  ervatory near Moscow.  had invoked the law of libel in every case such as  vein. The more dignified papers, however, presented
reach his dearest goal — peace with himsefl, his God  Similar observations, he said,  have been made in  this, not one of his detractors could have proven  straightforward accounts like the following:
and his neighbour.  Wernher von Braun.  the United States, Australia, India and Japan.  that the name he had used was applicable, and  "QUEEN  JULIANA  SEES  U.S.  WRITER,  Hour’s
  The phenomena of the UFO today should be con-  Adamski could have indeed made money from those  Discussion on Space Travel, from our correspondent.
  From: ’’Jyllands-Posten’”’, Denmark,
  sidered as global,’”’ he added.  claims! But Adamski was not that kind of man. He  THE  HAGUE,  May  19th.  Queen  Juliana  and  the
  Dec 11th 1966.
  Credit: IGAP-DENMARK.  He  rejected the  idea that birds,  insects or plant  knew the truth, and therefore no-one could harm his  Prince of the  Netherlands today received, at Soest-
  seeds could cause such reactions on radar screens.  integrity. On this integrity all his subsequent actions  dijk  Palace,  Mr.  George  Adamski,  the  American
  Translation: RONALD CASWELL.
  Zigel  said  there  could  be  no  doubt  that  UFOs  rested.  author of several books on space travel. The Queen
  exist  "but  the  nature  of these  objects  is  still  not  Many incidents is his later life were mis-reported,  and  Prince  Bernhard  had  a  talk  lasting  about  an
  understandable today.”  sometimes out of malice, at other times because of  hour with Mr. Adamski. It is understood that the talk
  Then he listed these five possible éxplanations:  expediency, when insufficient detail was at hand.  was  of  a  purely  informative  character. The  Queen

UFO-reports
  1.  NONSENSE  or  invention.  He  said  there  was  Many were the garbled reports circulated about one  and  Prince Bernhard wanted to  become acquainted
  some  untruth  here,  citing  reports  of  people  who  very special occasion. Here, below, is WHAT ADAM-  with Mr. Adamski and his views.
  claimed to have ridden in flying saucers and others  SKI SAID about:  "Those  who  were  present  at  the  conversation
  who  threw  hats  in  the  air  and  then  photographed  included Mr. C. Kolff, president of the Royal Nether-
  “saucers”. But he rejected this alternative as killing  The royal audience  lands  Society  for  Aviation,  Lieutenant-General  H.
  the question rather than solving it.  Schaper, Chief of the  Royal  Netherlands Air Staff,
Soviet radar spots UFOs  2. AN OPTICAL illusion related to the distribution
  During my stay in Brisbane | received a letter from
  Rey d’Aquila of The Hague, Netherlands, requesting
  Professor Jongbloed, of Utrecht University, an expert
  of  light  in the earth’s atmosphere,  such  as a  rain-  in  medical  science  dealing  with  aviation,  and  Pro-
MOSCOW - (AP) — A Soviet scientist says there  me to attend an interview with Queen Juliana on May
  bow. The  UFO, he  said,  is  more complicated than  fessor  Rooy,  of  Amsterdam  University,  who  gives
may really be such things as flying saucers from  18th, 1959. The letter requested an immediate reply.
  that, however.  lectures on mass communication.
outer space.  | sent a cable confirming receipt of the letter and
  "Mr. Adamski, who claims to have flown round the
  Soviet radar screens have détected unidentified  3.  A NEW SECRET flying apparatus of one of the  consenting to the interview.
  moon in a flying saucer and to have been in contact
flying objects (UFOs) for 20 years, he says.  military powers on  earth.  ’’No  one  holds this  view  Toward the end of April, when | returned to Lon-
  with inhabitants of the planet Venus,  is lecturing  in
  But Soviet scientists, like their colleagues in the  now,” he said.  don from lectures in outlying cities of the British
  The Hague and Amsterdam.”
West, are still puzzled about what such UFOs really  4.  AN  UNKNOWN  phenomena of  nature, just  as  Isles, the rumor was out that | was to have an inter-
  As | am a common man with no title or position,
  The scientist, identified only as F. Zigel, was writ-  radioactivity was unknown until the end of the last  view with Queen Juliana. | was at the home of Des-
  some  newspapers  questioned  the  Queen’s  right  to
ing in the current issue of the illustrated Soviet  century. In this context, ionized particles and charged  mond Leslie when the telephone rang. It was a rep-
  invite  me to  the  palace.  A  true  ruler, or represenyouth magazine Cmena.  particles of dust in the atmosphere were given as a  orter asking for verification of the interview. | admitt-
  tative  of the  people,  can  gain  knowledge from the
  He offered five possible explanations for UFOs,  possible explanation.  But Zigel  said,  this does  not  ed only that such a rumor existed, and did not con-
  lowest as well as the highest sources.
including visitors from outer space. He called this  explain the color or maneuverability of UFOs or their  firm anything.
alternative ''extremely speculative.”  appearance in good weather.  The reporter was cautioned not to publish anything  The press called the Queen gullible and accused
  But,” he added, "as the UFO problem has not  until it had been confirmed. He agreed to await con-  her of falling for strange things. This is not true. She
  5. SPACESHIPS from an advanced civilization on
yet been solved, different explanations, including  firmation, out of respect for Queen Juliana,  but his  is only interested in all new things of life, as a ruler
  another planet. Zigel said the speed of UFOs suppextremes, are possible.”  respect was apparently short-lived.  should be. We are living in times when on every
  orts this theory. So does what he called ’’the fact”
  The article took the lid off a subject rarely disc-  The Daily Herald of April 29th, 1959, London, pub-  hand things are changing. Unless the rulers are well
  that  no  UFOs were  ever reliably  reported to  have
ussed in the press here.  lished the following article under the heading,  ’’Ju-  informed, they cannot serve their people well.
  landed.
  In the 1950s the Soviet press scoffed at American  liana’s New Joy—Flying Saucers’. The reporter gave  Queen Juliana has the welfare of her people at
  Zigel called for ’’an all-sided, thorough, scientific
reports of flying saucers as just so much cold war  this account: ’’| checked with Juliana’s secretary.  heart. Therefore she has an open mind that permits
  exploration” to  clear  up the  origin  of  UFOs  once
propaganda.  Yes,’ the secretary said over the phone from Hol-  her to  look at all facets of  life,  not  bowing  to  the
  and for all.
  By those Soviet accounts, the Americans tried to  land. ’Her Majesty has asked Mr. Adamski to con-  dictates of the few; and so she was not persuaded
explain away the "'saucers’’ as some sort of new,  From: The Miami News, Wed, April 19th, 1967.  fidential talks. More than that | cannot disclose. The  to cancel the appointment.
secret Soviet weapon.  Credit: Mrs. Jane McEvoy, Florida, U.S.A.  talk will be between the two of them alone.’ ”  At this time | will relate the true facts of my inter-
122  ufo contact  ufo contact  131

view with  the Queen. They have never been pub-  | had been nervous with anticipation, but a feeling  pulses come from the animal’s glands and its react-  periences  into two  different areas,  to  give  science
lished before. The press reports quoting questions  of calm  and ease came over me  as |  stood  in the  ions are wholly automatic. The make-up of an animal  control  over the  one  and  religion  control  over the
and answers from the interview were falsified, as no  presence of the Queen. She and the others present  allows  no  room  for  freedom  of  choice,  searching  other.
reporters were allowed inside the palace during the  were standing when | entered the room. The Queen’s  curiosity or doubt or conflict between  impulses and  Let  science
  explore the physical world, whilst
interview!  secretary  came  forward  and  introduced  me  to  Her  ethical standards.  religion takes care of the other, people say. When
  | left London  and  arrived  in  Amsterdam  on  the  Majesty, Queen Juliana.  In turn,  | was presented to  An  animal  knows  nothing  of  that  strange  voice  science has reached its limits, then religion can take
15th of May, 1959. Miss Rey d’Aquila and some news-  Prince Bernhard; Lt. General Schaper, Chief of the  called conscience, which tells us what is right and  over and explain that which allows of no explanation.
paper reporters were at the airport to meet me. |  Royal  Netherlands  Air  Staff;  Professor  Jongbloed,  what is wrong. Only Mankind is equipped with the  This is a fateful step to take. To separate the two
was still suffering from the cold | had caught in  of  Aerial  Medicine;  Dr.  M.  Rooy,  Telecommunica-  conflicts which arise, because it is created in God’s  worlds could only be done if scientists were not
Scotland, so | excused myself and was taken to a  tions; and Mr. Kolff, President of the Royal Nether-  Image. And only Mankind is equipped with a soul  Christians and no Christians were scientists. But
small hotel on the outskirts of Amsterdam.  lands Society for Aviation.  which enables it to master the problems caused by  science and religion do not reign over two separate
  The next afternoon | was called to a television  When the Queen acknowledged the introduction, |  these conflicts.  kingdoms.
rehearsal for a program that was to be given that  completely forgot all the instructions and could not  Today, thousands of scientists are at work on the
evening. This was on May 16th, and | showed my  remember the formalities that should have been foll-  most  momentous  task  Mankind  has  ever faced:  an
  INVISIBLE.
film on the program. The reception by the public of  owed. Instead, | acted upon my feelings and was at  attempt to understand  a physical  Universe which  is
my subject and the film was very good.  ease, for here was a feeling of welcome as among  unending in time and space, complicated in its detail  It is not possible to build a wall between religion
  and science. Gradually, as science is enabled to ex-
  After the rehearsal, we drove back to the hotel,  friends.  and impressive in its orderliness, and to understand
  plain some of the mysteries of the Universe it comes
picked up my luggage and left for The Hague. Miss  The Queen graciously asked if | drank coffee.  its origin and how it functions.
  into areas which were previously unknown or only
d’Aquila had arranged transportation by automobile,  When | replied that | did, coffee was served in large  It is no longer a sufficient explanation of the aims
and | arrived at The Hague about midnight.  cups of beautiful design, while we remained stand-  of science to say that it seeks to find the physical  accepted on a basis of faith.

  My hotel was in a quiet residential district, across  ing. After all had been served, we were asked to be  laws which govern the Universe and increases Man-  Every new experience — physical or spiritual — must
  fit into a pattern which gives both faith and meanthe street from a beautiful park. The first day was  seated. That coffee was the best | had had since  kind’s  control  over  it,  because  science’s  field  of
  ing. It is Mankind that explores the Universe, experset aside for me to rest. That morning | unpacked  leaving America!  endeavour has increased in size. The basic elements
  iments, and seeks for the truth. It is not just a detail,
my camera and walked through the park to the  We were at one end of the library, seated in  of science are collective experiences, observations
ocean. Several restful hours were spent strolling  and the setting of certain goals at which to aim.  it takes part itself in the process of creation. Man-
  lounge chairs assembled in a horseshoe position.
  kind itself is the greatest result of the Creation.
around and photographing the local scenery.  Directly across from me sat the Queen. Next to her  From these the scientist tries to make a model of
  | had been placed in this secluded hotel purposely  time,  proportions  and  cause.  When  one  gains  new  The fact that more and more of the wonders of
  was the Prince, and on my right, next to the Prince,
to avoid the press. When the newsmen could not  knowledge the old model is not rejected, it is just  Creation are being disclosed is of direct concern to
  was a gentleman who acted as spokesman for him.
locate me, they became very irritated. Those in  altered where the new knowledge points to an alter-  Mankind.
  As | remember, this gentleman was Mr. Kolff. Seated
charge of publicity would not say where | was stay-  ation.  Science and religion can be compared with two
  on  my  left were the  other three  gentlemen  already
ing, and the manager of the hotel had been given  By  reason of the fact that the scientist  is willing  windows in a house, through which we can observe
  named. The secretary was seated a  little apart from
orders not to reveal my presence. For one day and  to  alter his  model  of the  Universe,  he shows that  the world around us or our neighbours. (There are
  the others.
evening | was able to relax.  he  does  not  demand  to  know  the  final  truth.  His  other windows to be found in the house: Art, Lite-
  Small pastries were served, and as we sat enjoy-  rature and History). Whatever we may see through
  On the morning of May 18th, | had breakfast and  scientific  laws  are  at  most  only  re-writings  of  the
  ing the refreshments and indulging  in informal con-  the windows of this imaginary house, it must fit in
readied myself for the visit to Soestdijk Palace near  observations he has made.
  versation, | noted that Her Majesty wore a  light blue  with the model we have of the Universe and our
Utrecht. The Palace car was to call for me at about  The laws of science do not control the reality but
  frock.  The  men  were  dressed  in  black  suits  with  place in it.
10.30 a.m. This was an informal meeting, so my bus-  attempts  only to  explain  it.  Therefore the  laws  can
  white shirts and black ties.  Where it does not fit, we must alter the model,
iness suit was proper attire. | had been carefully  be altered when one attains new knowledge.
  Cigarettes were passed. Then the secretary opened  alter our aim and try to increase our ability to undercoached on the proper etiquette and conduct in the
  the topic for which | had been summoned. She ref-  stand the Creation.
presence of my royal hosts. When the car arrived,  NEW AIMS.
  erred to my two books and asked a question regard-
| was introduced to the chauffeur who held the door  The tasks which science sets itself are never-end-  In  our modern  society it would  appear that  many
  ing my trip around the moon. | was aware of having
open as | entered. To evade the press, we avoided  ing.  For truth  is  no  static  concept.  For every  new  people  think  that  the  advances  made  by  science
  been granted only forty-five minutes, so | made my
the customary highway to the palace.  answer arrived at, a dozen new concepts come into  have caused such things as religious belief to be-
  answers as brief as possible.
  We entered the palace garden through a gate  view.  come  out-of-place  and  old-fashioned.  They  cannot
  The  astronomer  and Air Force chief asked queopened by a guard who saluted smartly as we pass-  Science stands before new frontiers in many fields  understand why we should "believe in something,
  stions  next,  trying  to discredit the interplanetary
ed. | noticed the highway in front of the palace was  of endeavour: the nucleus of the atom becomes more  when science can tell us that we know” so much.
  visitors.  As  |  think  of  it  now,  perhaps  my  answer
empty as we turned into the grounds. A winding  and more enigmatic — the origin and composition of  The simple  answer to this  assertion  is that we are
  was a  little  rude  in the  presence  of  royalty, for  |
driveway, bordered by massive shrubs, brought us  the Universe is still shrouded in mystery — the inner  aware  of  more  of  nature’s  mysteries
  today than
to the huge entrance. My mind was so taken up in  said: ’’| have known of no major officials of our Air  functions of living organisms still allow of no ex-  people were before the advent of scientific research.
  Force, and few astronomers, who have told what they  planation. Science’s Golden Age lies ahead of us.
trying to remember all the instructions | had been  There is absolutely no reason to believe that God
given that | failed to notice much about the palace  actually know about the visitors from space.  It is a  The scientist works in an atmosphere where doubt  cannot  retain His place in our modern times in the
itself, except that it was white. The chauffeur had  known fact that the secret files and confidential  is an accepted fact of life and exaggerated ortho-  same way as before we began to examine His Creaspoken very few words as we rode along and had  reports of the Air Force have never been released  doxy taboo. Thomas Huxley says of the scientist:  tion with telescope and ion-accelerators.
given me a mind to relieve my throat when | coughed.  to the public, or even to high officers in the govern-  "For him scepticism is a first duty and blind faith  Even though science is no religion, it is, by nature
  It was 11.00 a.m. when the car stopped in front of  ment. | am inclined to believe this applies to all  an unforgivable sin’. A result of scientific progress  of its assumptions, its application and its search for
the entrance. A uniformed attendant opened the  governments.” | think Her Majesty knew exactly what  is that traditions, which are the buttresses of faith,  the truth, a religious function. The Creator reveals
door, saluted, and escorted me up the broad steps  | meant, for she gave a tiny smile of acknowledg-  have  been swept aside. The sciences and religion  Himself through His Creations. As Charles A. Coulto the palace doors, which were opened by two  ment.  have therefore often collided. And yet it is one of  son says: ’’Science helps us to create a picture of
doormen dressed in royal blue, who also saluted.  | pointed out that most of the findings of our Earth  the tragedies of our time that science and religion  God”. We must remember that science only exists
When | entered, one of these men helped me out  satellite had been published in my books at least  have become adversaries. Because to achieve a sol-  because there are people, and its concepts exist
of my top coat and muffler; the other escorted me  three years before.  ution of the conflict it has been tempting to adopt a  only in people’s understanding. Behind these coninto a large library with high ceiling.  Many questions were asked about inhabitants of  policy of peaceful co-existence, to divide our ex-  cepts lies reality, which God can reveal to us.
  ufo contact  ufo contact  123

  ENDLESSNESS OF THE UNIVERSE.  other planets. | retold much of what | had written  ilar to Earth. Many green spots that looked like
  Manned space-flights are pioneer works. But until  in my second book. The major questions of our con-  vegetation had been observed on the other side of
  now  they  have  only  begun  to  open  the  door  out  ference dealt with our future in outer space.  the moon. This confirmed some of the things | had

Science  toward the endlessness of the Universe.
  That which  we  can  see of the  mysteries  of the
  Awareness of time was lost as we all grew inter-
  ested in the conversation about outer space. What
  told the Queen during our two-hour conference.
  | was curious to know just how the Russians had
  Universe through  the  crack  in that  door  only  con-  began as a forty-five minute interview lasted two  gained this information. My friends and | discussed
  firms  our  belief  in  its  Creator.  Mankind  with  its  hours. Finally the Queen reminded me that my lect-  the possibilities later that morning. Was it possible
  limited  understanding  cannot  comprehend  an  omni-  ure  started  in  less  than  an  hour. Interest was  so  that a Russian had made a trip as | had, or did they
Science and God  present, almighty, all-knowing and eternal God.  great in the topic, if it had not been for the lecture,  receive the information from their moon shot that
  Every attempt to create a picture of God and red-  we could have kept talking for hourse.  went into orbit around the sun? (Information received
DR. WERNHER VON BRAUN.  When the Queen reminded me of the time, | arose  at the time of this writing seems to confirm that they
  uce Him so that He can be comprehended offers
  "It is one of the tragedies of our time, that science  but further proof of His Greatness. | believe it best  and we all shook hands in a very friendly manner.  did.)
and  religion  have  become  adversaries’,  says  Dr.  if one, through Faith, accepts God as a proof of  | was deeply impressed with the firm sincere grasp  Before the morning was over | was asked if |

Wernher von  Braun, who  is one of the world’s lea-  Goodwill,  which throughout history manifests itself  of Her Majesty and the Prince. The spokesman for  would accept an interview with Fox Movietone in
ding space-researchers, head of the George C. Mar-  more and more as the ability of Mankind to under-  the Prince escorted me to the car. During the con-  downtown Hague. | would be called for and taken to

shall  Space-travel  Centre  in  Alabama,  one  of  the  stand, grows.  ference he had stated he would like to take a trip  the appointed place so | agreed.
brains  behind  the Gemini  Project  and the  U.S.A.’s  It gives peace of mind to think of God as the  with the space people and he repeated the request  The selected place was a large hotel in the centre
project for the first manned moon rocket, to be sent  Father of all, and the resultant thought, that all men  as we descended the steps to the waiting car.  of town. Our car was parked across the street from
up in 1969.  are brothers, is an ethical guide-line.  As we were leaving the Palace grounds, | noticed  the building. | was told to walk across the street and
  *  Scientists only know that in nature nothing is des-  a large group of people standing across the high-  enter the hotel. Camera were ready and set for ope-
  troyed without being converted into energy. Not even  way and facing the Palace. As the car came through  ration, but | had to rehearse the walk several times
  THE  TWO  STRONGEST  FORCES  which  go  to  the tiniest particle can disappear without leaving a  the gate, many of these people gave the familiar  before pictures were finally taken. In the final take,
create our present-day civilisation  are science  and  trace. Nature knows nothing of annihilation, only  salute. Possibly they only wanted to get a look at  the large glass doors, framed in brass, opened autoreligion. Through science  Man  seeks to  learn  more  the common man who had been granted a private
  change. Would God have had less consideration for  matically and | entered the hotel.
of  the  mysteries  of  Creation.  Through  religion  he  interview with the Queen, and whom the press had
  His Masterpiece, the Human Soul?  | was greeted by many people, including the manseeks to understand the Creator.  described as an “objectionable” visitor. On the fast
  For me  immortality  means  a continuation  of our  ager of the hotel, and received the customary salute.
  They are not independent of each other. It is just  trip back to the hotel, | noticed crowds of people
  spiritual existence after death.  This was not photographed.  | was taken to a large
as difficult for me to understand a scientist who  along the highway, saluting as we passed.
  Mankind has had a belief in a life after death  room where cameras and sound  equipment were in
cannot perceive  a Higher  Reality behind  the  origin  Arriving at the hotel, we found a car waiting to
  since the dawn of history. This has been as essential  place. Here | was seated beside a small mahogany
of the Universe, as it is to understand a theologian  take me to the lecture at The Hague. The Queen’s
  part of the primitive cultures’ religions and it has  table  which  held  a  bouquet  of  American  Beauty
who denies the advances made by science. Science  chauffeur asked if he might attend the lecture and
  been preserved in higher developed religions and  roses. My interrogator was seated on my right. His
and religion are far from being independent of each  was granted permission to do so.
  philosophies.  first question was: ’’The world wants to  know what
other, neither are they opposing forces; on the cont-  Due to the long interview at the Palace, | arrived
  The significance of this is of far more importance  the Queen had to say.”
rary  they  are  as  brothers.  Both  are  striving  for  a  twenty minutes late at the lecture hall where a cap-
  than the pronouncements of philosophers and theobetter  world.  While  science  seeks  to  uncover  the  My answer was that  Her Majesty  and  His  Royal
  logians about what we can expect when we leave  acity crowd was waiting. The people present were
forces  of  Nature  around  us,  religion  is  trying  to  Highness were deeply interested in the future of
  this world. From the dawn of time the conception of  filled with curiosity and anticipation in regard to my
discover the forces in Man himself.  outer space development. The interrogator was very
  immortality has had its influence on untold millions  meeting with Queen Juliana. Reporters especially
  As we gradually gain a greater knowledge of nat-  dissatisfied with my reply and tried to get me to
  of people.  were insistent that | give them all the details. This |
ure so we become more impressed and humbled by  relate our conversation in some detail. When | ref-
  could not do, for the meeting had been on a level of
its orderliness and never-failing  perfection. Our ex-  THE SOUL DiVIDES MANKIND FROM  used, he hurried through the other questions, and the
  dignity that denied me the privilege of speaking
tensive knowledge of the Universe and its laws has  OTHER CREATIONS.  news conference was over. | was told this newsreel
  until the Queen spoke first. All | could say was:
made it possible for us to send people out from  The soul separates Man from the animal. An  would be shown all over the world, but | have no
  "The Queen was very kind, and if there were more
their natural surroundings into unknown space and  animal’s actions are dictated by its inborn impulses,  reports of it ever having been shown.
  people like her the world would be a better place
bring them safely back to earth again.  i.e. hunger, fear and self-preservation. These im-  It is interesting to note that, after my visit to the
  to live in.’’ A tremendous burst of applause took
  Palace, wherever | went in Holland | received the
  place, and from there on the lecture proceeded as
  salute from those who recognised me. Perhaps this
  normal.
  is a customary honor paid to one who has been
  After the lecture, the reporters crowded around
  received by the Queen.
  me asking, ’’What did the Queen say?” "It is the
  Queen’s honor to speak first,’ | replied. This made  On Friday May 22nd, | received an invitation from
  the press very dissatisfied with me. Some went so  the manager of the City Theatre in downtown Am-
  far as to write up a fictitious interview, complete  sterdam, to attend the preview of an Italian film,
  with questions and answers.  Death Comes From Outer Space.
  When | returned to my hotel | was grateful that no  The death that came from outer space was a gig-
  UFO CONTACT WISHES TO OFFER ITS DEEPEST SYMPATHY TO  one knew where | was, for now | could relax and go  antic asteroid travelling at terrific speed directly
  over the events of the day.  toward the earth. This asteroid was formed from all
  THE FAMILY OF A BRAVE SOVIET PIONEER -  the debris blown into space by our atomic and hyd-
  A radio was in my room, and the next morning |
  tuned it to the BBC since | could not understand  rogen explosions. The people of the Earth were in a
  COSMONAUT VLADIMIR KOMAROV
  the Dutch of local stations. On an early-morning  panic, for they were warned that at any moment it
  WHO DIED ON A SPACE VENTURE, APRIL 24th 1967.  program called The News of Europe, | was very  could hit our planet and cause complete destruction.
  much surprised to hear a report from a Russian sci-  Meanwhile, huge tidal waves and heavy earthquakes
  entist stating that the moon was not composed of  were wreaking havoc in many places throughout the
  volcanic dust, but rather of granite formations sim-  world,
124  ufo contact  ufo contact

  The scientists of all nations called upon the mil-  | wish those imaginative reporters could have been
itary in every other nation to aim their atomic miss-  present during my interview with Queen Juliana. They
iles at the asteroid and to fire simultaneously. In  might  have learned something of dignity, kindness
this  way  the  asteroid
  was destroyed by the same  and  gentility, from a great woman.who rules her
weapons that had caused its creation.  country with wisdom and love.
  Representatives of the press were present at the
  From: ’’Flying Saucers Farewell’? 1961,
showing. After it was over, | was asked if such a
  by George Adamski.
thing could happen in real life. | replied that it could
and gave the following explanation:
  "The lightning bolt is created from invisible particles of matter that are fused together by the terr-

  UFOLOGY
ific heat of a natural electrical discharge. It is entirely
possible for the millions of tons of debris that have
been  blown  into  the  upper  regions  of  the  earth’s
atmosphere to come together and form an  artificial
asteroid. The larger the mass of debris, the more
attraction it would have for additional particles.”  A proposal to UNO
  This picture alerted me to the possibility that rad-
  PRESS RELEASE NO. 6.
iation and fallout are not the only dangers we might
be facing from our atomic explosions.  February 2nd, 1967. New York.
  Reports  have  come  from  Mexico  stating  that  a  RELEASED BY
huge fireball crashed into a mountain just before the  Intercontinental UFO Observer and
disastrous earthquake there in August of 1959.  Analytic Network,
  Recently several planes have reportedly hit objects  Colman VonKeviczky representative, 33-50
from space. Some have survived; others have cras-  75th Street 1C., Jackson Heights, N.Y. 11372. U.S.A.
hed  to  their doom.  Could  they  have  crashed  into  SUBJECT.
some of the high-energy pockets left by our explos-  The  IntercontinentalUFO Observer and Analytic
ions?  Network,  representing the globally united scientific
  Some of these man-made asteroids burn and glow,  UFO research analysts /Press Rel., Jan. 11th, 1967/,  Fresco in the Dechany Monastery (Yugoslavia). The
and could be mistaken for ordinary meteorites. This  have requested U.N. Secretary General U Thant, for  angels look as if they were flying in spacecraft.
may also be the answer to some of the fireballs that  invitation of the world leading scientists pioneering
  The icon, ’’The Resurrection of our Lord Jesus
have been reported.  in UFO studies, pioneer UFO expert researchers, to
  Christ’. (17th century) from the Moscow Theological
  By the way of closing this chapter, | would like to  the Peaceful Uses of Outer Space Conference, to be
  Academy. ’’The House of the Lord’’ resembles a
reproduce in part a letter concerning the lecture in  held September, 1967 in Vienna; to study first hand
  space ship.
Amsterdam,  sent to  co-workers  in  The  Netherlands  the evidence and earthly reconnaissance of unidenarea.  It  was  written  by  Miss  Rey  d’Aquila,  dated  tified power/s/ by UFOs from other celestial bodies.
June 13th, 1959, and reads as follows:  Representation should be headed by the nations-
  "At the  end  of  the  lecture  in  Amsterdam,  Pro-  wide awarded space and  rocket scientist ’’father of
fessor E. L. Seelliger of Bergen (NH), physicist and  astronautics’”’ Prof. Dr. Hermann Oberth and a world
former Delft Professor, stepped on the platform and  wide documentation should be furnished and exhibthanked ’our friend Adamski’ in public for the things  ited by the Intercontinental UFO Network, supportthat he had brought us. Quoting him exactly: ’The  ing the statements of the scientists’ representation.
things that we have heard may sound strange to most  Request based on a resolution of the General Assof us, if not all, but strange things happen every  embly 21st:Session /Dec. 19 and 21, 1966/ that the
day, if our eyes are open. | hope that we will be  UN is privileged to invite Special Agencies to the
open-minded and benefit from the things we have  Conference related to the subject.
heard today.’  Following is the next of the Memorandum address-
  "The audience applauded heartily. (Inside inform-  ed on February 1st, 1967 to His Excellency U Thant,
ation: Professor Seelliger is in good relation to the  Secretary General of the United Nations:
Queen and if we take his mental courage and her  My dear Secretary General — Your Excellency,
interest and  deep  understanding,  we  may  conclude  The Intercontinental UFO Observer and Analytic
that after all George Adamski’s visit to our country  Network respectfully request that you, chairman of
has been  a successful  one  and the stepping stone  the Outer Space Affairs Committee, his Excellency,
to a better future.)”’  Dr. Kurt Waldheim, Ambassador of Austria to the
  Regarding  my  interview  with  the  Queen,  |  will  U.N. and the General Assembly, invite a representagain quote from the report: But one thing we can  ation of the world’s leading scientists pioneering in
say for sure,  no  press  reporters  were  present.  So  UFO  studies,  expert
  UFO research pioneers to the
what the press had further to say about his audience  Conference  on  the
  Peaceful Uses of Outer Space
was  a  big  lie from the  first  to  the  last  line!  Paris  to be held September, 1967 in Vienna. Our request
Match,  for  instance,  carried  a  wholly  imaginative  is in relation to the resolution of the General Ass-
‘Interview With The Queen’, complete with questions  embly, 21st Session, which took place on 20 and 22
and answers!”  December, 1966, and whose privilege it is to invite
128  ufo contact  ufo contact  125

fantasy,  others  think  that  initially  it  had  some  without an angel’s halo. He holds an unseen ’’control  to the Conference Special Agencies  related to the  space and celestial bodies, in article No. VI.
meaning.  Two  centuries  ago  the  mystery  attracted  column” and looks behind him as if watching the  subject.  .  all  ’’phenomena’”’  observed  in  space  and  celthe  German  astronomer, Johan  Kepler, while  more  flight of his fellow-spaceman. Sitting in the space-  The proposed representation should be headed by  estial  bodies  to  be  reported  to  the  Secretary
recently, scientists held  an  international  symposium  ship following is another man, who also has nothing  the world’s most highly honored, awarded and res-  General  in  article  No. V. is exactly an  ’’unexto discuss the matter.  in common with the traditional angel and also has  pected scientist in the field of Space and Rockets —  plained UFO Article’ from article No. V.
  But  neither  Kepler  nor  contemporary  scientists  one hand on the controls’.  the "father of astronautics’ Prof. Dr. Hermann  The  enclosure  No.  2.  clearly  shows,  that  these
found the key to the problem, which may turn out to  Both ships have streamlined bodies. Clearly visible  Oberth. The team of scientists should be completed  articles were not proposed in the original issues of
have an altogether unexpected solution.  jets  in their wake accentuate the impression of  according to enclosure No. 1. with highly competent  the  ’’Treaty  Draft’  by  the  United  States  filed  24
  In antiquity and the Middle Ages human  imaginat-  speed. ’’The saints in the flying machines are in the  scientific UFO researchers whose statements can  hours before, — while the  USSR filed 20 days after
ion was stirred by an unusual star, now believed to  position of pilots’, says the magazine.  be screened and verified on the basis of various  my Space Security Pact proposal, which had been
be the Star of Bethlehem. The star was alleged  to  documentation media in possession of our world-wide  filed and issued to all the UN Missions on June 27,
  Angels  watching  the  flight  cover their eyes  and
be able to move and stop.  analytic network, such as; existing records of the  1966. See the enclosed letter to the Perm. Mission
  ears with their hands and seem to be backing away
  From that let us turn to the Christian Apocrypha-  UFO observers, embracing continental documentation  of Italy to the UN. /Enclosure No. 2./ (Enclosures
  for fear  of being  blinded  of deafened.  Below, two
books banned by Church censorship from services  by historical background, statistics, photographs,  No’s 2 and 3 are not included as we have dealt at
  groups are pictured, every face portraying  surprise,
and religious reading. The Apocrypha reflects man’s  motion pictures, and other documentations exhibited  length with these items in previous issues of UFO
  fear, or perplexity. The central figure represents the
efforts to explain the most dramatic mysteries of life.  and witnessed by originators, about the UFOs and  CONTACT - Ed.)
  crucified Christ.
These books sometimes stand in direct contradiction  their global reconnaissance activities.  In the enclosure No. 3 you will find the constitutof Church-approved texts.  The  fresco  depicting  the  Resurrection  of  Christ  As a former international civil servant on your  ional build up for the Intercontinental UFO Observer
  A  familiar  one  about  early  Christianity  is  called  looks just as odd. The Messiah looks as if he is in a  staff, and founder of the Intercontinental UFO Net-  & Analytic Network. The Press Release for which,
"The Tale About the Three Magi’. The original vers-  rocket which  has  not yet begun  to  move,  explains  work, supporting our request, may | call your attent-  dated January 11, 1967, was usually silenced as...
ion must have been written in Latin in the middle  the  Yugoslav  magazine.  Indeed,  the  vehicle  looks  ion to the constructive and progressive values of my  "not in the public interest’.
of the third century at the earliest, and  later trans-  very much like a space rocket, with a two-wing stab-  proposals, submitted during the last year, to your  In spite of all this, there has been an increase of
lated  into  many  languages.  A  15th-century  Byelo-  ilizer in its upper part. With his right hand Christ is  cabinet, assisting voluntarily the UFO problem within  UFO appearances in the past year and  a growing
russian  translation  made  five  centuries  before  the  trying to lift aboard the ship one of the people  the framework of the UN, which have already been  impatience on the part of the public with the govspace era contains a highly unusual interpretation of  standing  on the ground before starting  on  his  way  realized during the past 11 months.  ernments’ policies in this regard. We are convinced
the tale. The star, it says, was watched  by astron-  to the  heavenly kingdom.  1) The PROJECT UN-UFO, the organization scheme  now  more  than  ever  that  this  proposal  to  accept
omers (this is the actual word used) in many Oriental  Monks at Dechany, to whom experts turned for an  of  an  international  analytic  team  within  your  staff,  information from world famous authorities will  meet
countries. Once it appeared at night and "’lit up the  explanation,  replied that apparently the drawings of  to  keep under control the  UFO global  surveillance,  with the wholehearted approval of the United Nations.
whole  of the sky as the  sun does.” Then the  star  “ships”  are  pictures  of  the  Sun  and  the  Moon.  and its 135 documentation, has been objected to by  For  the  first  time  perhaps,  an  opportunity will  be
hung over Mount Vans for a whole day, after which  According  to  New  Testament  legend,  Christ  was  the government of the  United States of America as  afforded to study first hand the voluminous evidence
it alighted on the mountain like an eagle.  crucified during a solar eclipse.  But why the ’’sun”  nonsense”... but in spite of this, the same gov-  that has heretofore been suppressed.
  is depicted rising  in the west the monks could  not  ernment, instead of investing money in the investig-
  The text contains a reference to  "certain books”  It  is a special  honor for us to  assist the  United
which  claim that  Christ came down from that star.
  say.  ation at the U.N. has, three months later, invested  Nations through our continental representation in the
  One of the papers on the Dechany miracle refers  300 thousand dollars for the same purpose in the
"But it was different from the  one  pictured  in  our  UFO problem.
  to  a hypothesis  saying that Christ was a man  who  Colorado University. The U.S. government has caschurches.  It had wings, the kind  an eagle has,  and  We  are  awaiting  your  information  regarding  our
  came  down  to  Earth  from  space.  The  magazine  ually been investigating UFO cases, classified as
many  long  rays.’’, which  sent  it moving  in  a  circle  proposal.  In  behalf  of  our continental  representat-
  comments that such  ideas are "’overbold’’, that the  Confidential’ since 1944, under project names, such
when it descended upon Mount Vans.  ives, | remain
  hypothesis,  if confirmed,  would  basically alter the  as, Sigma, Grudge, and Bluebook. Valuated back-
  This version of the old story unexpectedly introd-  very respectfully yours
  Biblical story about Christ’. The frescoes, it is noted,  wards this represents budgetary expenditures amountuces a new image and a new idea, both sharply at  signature
  showing objects obviously resembling sputniks, ’’baff-  ing to more millions of dollars.
variance with the church texts. Without question, the  Colman VonKeviczky
  le layman and specialist alike.”  2) The INTERCONTINENTAL SPACE SECURITY
apocryphal version is fantastic. But it is hardly more  3 enclosures.
  The Dechany ’’Miracle”’ is not unique. An icon in  PACT proposal, submitted to your cabinet on May 10,
fantastic  than  the  approved  canonic  version.  What
  the Church Archaeology Study of the Moscow Theo-  1966 has been accepted in part, in that the Articles  ICUFON ENCLOSURE NO. 1.
was at the basis of the author’s fantasy? That, too,
  logical Academy, called The Resurrection of Jesus  No., 1. Il. V. and Par., 1.2.3.4.5. 14., therein have  The Intercontinental UFO Observer and Analytic
is shrouded in mystery.
  Christ and dating back to the 17th century, shows  been transferred to the Governing Principles of  Network proposes to invite, to the Outer Space
  Christ in a streamlined container which vaguely  Peaceful Uses of Outer Space Treaty, which was  Conference, /Sept., 1967, Vienna/ the following:
ANGELS IN FLYING MACHINES.  resembles a spaceship standing on the ground.  negotiated in the Outer Space Committee, - a res-
  A. SCIENTISTS.
  The  Dechany  Monastery  in  Kosovskaya  Metehia,  Smoke billows from both sides of the container’s  olution adopted by acclamation by the General Ass-
  Prof. Dr. Hermann Oberth internationally acclaimed
southern Yugoslavia, was built in the first half of the  lower part, enveloping the legs of the angels who  embly last December 19, and signed by 62 nations,
  rocket scientist, UFO researcher. GERMANY.
14th century, and by 1350 contained numerous fresc-  watch from the sidelines. Just as on the Dechany  exploring in outer space. The transplanted articles of
  Prof. Dr. Gabriel Alvial director of Cosmic Radiation
oes on subjects from the Old and New Testaments.  fresco, Christ’s right hand lifts a man (the church  the mentioned Security Pact are as follows:
  Institute, Santiago. CHILE.
  In the spring of 1964 more frescoes were found in  version identifies him with Adam). Eve waits for her  a. earth and earthman security — supreme constit-
  Prof. Dr. Alexander Kazantsev Soviet radio astronthe monastery. The Yugoslav magazine Svet publis-  turn on the other side.  utional authority of UN in relation to outer space
  omer and archeologist.  USSR.
hed photographs entitled: "Spaceships on the Dec-  The icon is surely of an apocryphal nature. There  in articles No. I.III.V.IX.
  Prof. Dr. Carl Sagan noted astronomer and  astro
hany Crucifix, Sputniks in our frescoes, Could anci-  may have been a written version presenting a non-  . establishment of international responsibility for
  physicist, member of NASA. USA.
ent icon-painters have depicted spaceships  in  Dec-  canonical view of Christ’s resurrection and ascens-  damages by exploring nations in articles No. VI.
  Prof. Dr. Mitrovan Zverer radio astronomer.  USSR.
hany?”’  It did not take a journalist’s imagination to  ion, but if there is, nothing is known about it. Poss-  and VII.
  Representative of Colorado University, UFO research
think up titles like these. Dechany frescoes actually  ibly it was destroyed by Church censors or else it  . astronauts to be considered envoys of the UN.,
  project. USA.
depict angels flying  in  spaceships  like the  present  disappeared with time. Or perhaps the manuscript  expressed as "envoys of mankind” in articles
sputniks.  exists undiscovered, in which case it may have  No. V.  B. SCIENTIFIC RESEARCHERS.
  Two  ships  are  shown  flying  one  after  the  other  inspired  icon  (or  mural)  painters  to  present space  . not prohibited of high explosive weapons in  Knut Hammarskjéld_ general director of the intern’1
from west to east. Sitting in the lead ship is a man  episodes.  (Continued).  manned space crafts for self defense in outer  Air Transport Association. CANADA.
126  ufo contact  ufo contact  127

Prof. Dr. Allen J. Hynek  astronomer, UFO investig-  have a number of his Western contemporaries. The  the caves ten times before the sunrise. When at last  ing gear. Nor is there any association with the hunt-
  ator since 20 years at Air Force.  USA.  author has spent 30 years collecting evidence to  they understood the sign language of the Dropas,  ers who, as some scholars assume, used ostrich egg-
Donald E. Keyhoe  US major ret., pioneer UFO res-  back up his thesis that intelligent beings from outer  they realized that the newcomers had peaceful int-  shells for helmets. Lotte called the enigmatic figures
  earcher, founder of NICAP. USA.  space  have  had  contact  with  our  Earth.  He  has  entions ...”  Martians.
Jacques Vallee mathematician and astronomer of  written two books, ’’Cosmic Reminiscences in Written  Another Ham hieroglyph expresses regret over the  Describing the ancient drawings on the cave walls
  Northwestern University, Mars Map Project.  USA.  Relics of the Past’, and ’’The Evolution of the Univ-  loss of the tribe’s own spaceships during a danger-  the French explorer says that one of them depicts
  erse and Intelligent Beings.”  ous landing in high mountains, and the failure to  "a man  appearing
  from an egg-shaped object cov-
C.  PIONEER UFO RESEARCHERS IN GLOBAL  With acknowledgements to the ’SPUTNIK” month-  build new ones.  ered with concentric circles. The object resembles
  COVERAGE.  ly digest, Jan.  1967,  we  present the  article  in two  In the opinion of Chinese archaeologists, the  an egg, or possibly a snail.”
Arduino Albertini  Italianresearch analyst, editor of  parts. Here is Part One,  of —  Bayan-Kara-Ula hieroglyphs are so mysterious that  So the Peruvian legend and the Tassili frescoes
  "Clypeus”.  SOUTH  EUROPE & ASIA MINOR.  their interpretation and use for scientific research  seem to have much in common. But the parallel does
Dr.  Walter  Biihler
  research  analyst investigator,  require the utmost care.  not end there. At a later date, in yet another part of
  Pres.  of  Brazilian
  UFO Res. Org: SOUTH AME-  Visitors from outer space  To obtain further information, the discs were  the world, the same subject was treated by ancient
  RICA & ANTARCTIC.  scraped free of adhering rock particles and sent to  Greek sculptors, certain of whom portrayed Castor
Ronald Caswell  editor of ’7"UFO CONTACT”. Inter-  by  Moscow for study. Scientists there made two import-  and Pollux of Dioscuria, as well as Helen and Neme-
  national research analyst.  Vyacheslav Zaitsev.
  NORTH EUROPE.  ant discoveries. The discs were found to contain a  sis, with remnants of egg-shells on their heads, for
Eng. Leonard G. Cramp noted technical analyst and  Expanding  knowledge  about the Universe usually  large amount of cobalt and other metals — a shaking  according to Greek mythology they arose from
  technical writer. British Interplanetary Society.  means  more  puzzles than discoveries. As man un-  discovery. Further investigation revealed that the  celestial eggs.
Coral E. Lorenzen founder of the APRO /Aerial  ravels  each  new  mystery,  he  is  assailed  by fresh  discs vibrate in an unusual rhythm, as if they carried  How did the odd idea of man’s birth from an egg
 Phenomena Research Organization/. NORTH  doubts  and torments, for he has caught a glimpse  an electric charge or were part of an electric circuit.  take shape? Perhaps by analogy with birds or fish?
  AMERICA AND ARCTIC.  of another mystery lying ahead. For the explorer —  The 12,000 year-old discs remain a challenge to  But why falling from the sky? One Latin American
Yusuke Matsumura Japanese pilot, UFO expert  in any field — it is probably this yet undiscovered  science.  legend says that eggs dropped down from the sky
  photogr. and analyst, Pres. of Cosmic Brotherhood  territory vaguely seen in the distance that sparks the  Legends of ancient China say that small, gaunt,  on dandelions! The absence of any existing inter-
  Ass.
  FAR EAST - ASIA.  search for knowledge.  yellow-faced men  came down from the clouds, But  pretation of this art leaves the door open for what
Eng. Aimé Michel French mathematician,  scientific  A report by a Chinese archaeologist startled the  earthly tribesmen felt a revulsion for the visitors,  must seem a fantastic assumption: that the legend
  researcher, noted writer. M. EAST, EUROPE.  world when it was published in 1965, for he had out  whose enormous heads and extremely thin, weak  of the celestial eggs, like any other myth or legend,
Hans C. Petersen  Danish Air Force major, resear-  of old bits of knowledge pieced together an amazing  bodies made them look ugly, and ’’'some people on  could have originated from bonafide impressions of
  cher, co-editor of "UFO CONTACT” bi-monthly.  theory of space-ships on a visit to the earth 12,000  fast horses” beat them.  an actual event. An ancient man may once have seen
  MIDDLE EUROPE.  years ago. The German magazine, ’’Das Vegetarische  Reality seems to confirm the legends. In some of  a container with a human being in it descend from
Edgar Sievers scientific research analyst. AFRICA.  Universum”’, wrote of his research:  the Bayan-Kara-Ula caves archaeologists and spel-  the sky, and imagined that the visitor was emerging
Brinsley Le Poer Trench pioneer British researcher,  "For a quarter of a century archaeologists explor-  eologists have found 12,000 year-old vestiges of  from a celestial egg.
  chairman of the Intern’l Sky Scouts.  FAR EAST —  ing caves in the Bayan-Kara-Ula Mountains, on the  graves and skeletons. The remains belong to human
  OCEANIA.  border of China and Tibet, have been finding old-  beings with huge craniums and underdeveloped skel-
  *VISITING CARDS” OF SPACE TRAVELLERS.
Karl L. Veit Pres. of DUIST, noted European UFO  looking stone discs covered with unreadable patterns  etons. The Chinese expeditions which discovered
  analyst, writer-publisher and editor of "UFO Nach-  and hieroglyphs. A total of 716 such discs have been  During excavations at different times in Japan
  the grounds reported they had found ’’an extinct
  richten’”’. EUROPE.  discovered, apparently dating back several thous-  archaeologists found figurines (dogu) depicting a
  species of ape.’”’ But so far as is known apes do not
  and years.  kind of human or anthropoid in odd-looking "space
  bury each other in graves or write hieroglyphic sym-
D.  DOCUMENTATION.  "Like a gramophone record, each disc has a hole  suits” and with helmets wholly covering their heads.
  bols on stone discs.
  Globally collected documentation should be exhib-  in its centre from which a double groove spirals its  On the helmets were visible marks of something like
  What makes the issue doubly involved is that the
ited and carried out by the Intercontinental UFO  way  to the circumference. The grooves are not  slit-type glasses, breath-filters, antennae, hearing
  inner walls of the caves are covered in many places
Observer and Analytic Network - classified in three  sound-tracks, but the oddest writing in China and  aids and even nightsight devices.
  with pictures of the rising sun, the moon, and the
parts:  indeed the rest of the world.”  Reviewing the latest Soviet space achievements,
  stars, spaced by a multitude of pea-sized dots (poss-
  1. The UFO Evidence.  2. The  Space Ships.  Archaeologists and decipherers of ancient writing  the German magazine Freie Welt in issue No. 12,
  ibly tiny pictures) which seem to be approaching the
  3. The Planetarians.  racked their brains trying to solve the secret of the  1966, printed a selection of rock drawings and phot-
  Earth in a mountain area.
  Ww  spirals. The result of the research by the Chinese  ographs of dogu under the humorous title,  ’’Visiting
  archaeologist was so shattering that the Peking Aca-  CELESTIAL EGGS.  Cards?”’, declaring that such drawings and figurines
  might be construed as proof that the Earth was once
A Soviet contribution
  demy of Pre-History banned publication of his work.  Peruvian legend has it that the ancient inhabitants
  Eventually permission was obtained and the prof-  of Peru were born from bronze, gold and silver eggs  visited by space beings.
  essor and his four colleagues published their coll-  which had fallen from heaven. The tale is cited but  Many similar rock pictures have been discovered
  IT IS RARE INDEED that we read or hear of the  ective effort under the  intriguing title ‘’Groove  left without comment in Jean Elisee Reclus’ famous  throughout the world. There are pictures of space-
Russian views on ’’Flying Saucers’’, although, in the  Writing Relating to Spaceships which, as Recorded  book "La Terre.”  men on cave walls in the Val Comonique, the Swiss
fifties they were referred to as an example of Ame-  on the Discs, Existed 12,000 Years Ago.”  A variant of the egg legend is featured in the  Alps, in Australia, close to Fergana and near the
rican ’’war psychosis’’. However, in this issue of UFO  The caves high up in the Bayan-Kara-Ula Moun-  famous Tassili frescoes, which were found in the  city of Navoi, in Soviet Central Asia.
CONTACT, you can read an account of recent Soviet  tains are inhabited by the Ham and Dropa tribes —  heart of the Sahara by a French lieutenant named  Puzzles that may have started with a space visit
moves regarding the UFO-case. (See ’’Soviet Radar  frail, stunted men averaging four feet two inches in  Brenand. Shortly afterwards the place was examined  are contained in legends and myths. Legends of Au-
Spots UFO”’.)  height. So far they have defied ethnic classification.  by a French expedition led by Henri Lotte, who later  stralia, the Near East, South and Central America
  Here, below, we bring you a Russian writer’s acc-  In fact, any detailed information about the tribes is  wrote  The Search for the Frescoes of Tassili. In  and the Far East all tell of the descent of gods from
ount of his research into the problems and mysteries  extremely scarce.  addition to pictures of animals and hunting scenes,  the sky. They offer food for thought.
of  extraterrestrial  visitations.
  Condensed from the  When deciphered, one of the hieroglyphs presum-  the frescoes depict strange figures dressed in what
book  "Na  Sushe  i
  na more’ — "On Land and at  ably set down by an ancient member of the Ham  looks like spacesuits and spherical helmets. The  THE STAR OF BETHLEHEM.
Sea” — we can see how the writer has followed many  tribe read: The Dropas came down from the clouds  helmets are definitely attached to the suits, which  The phrase "Star of Bethlehem” is twenty centof the same threads of Biblical and pre — History as  in their gliders. Our men, women and children hid in  evoke no associations with ritual headdress or hunt-  uries old. Some regard it as a product of sheer
  RCSA  Urs e7y Vog  October 3, 1967

  Mr. RayRobinson
  809 South Stewart Street
  Winchester, Virginia 22601

  Dear Mr. Robinson:

  Your letter of September 27th, with enclosure,
  has been received.
  The investigation of Unidentified Flying Objects
  is not and never has been a matter that is within the investiga-
  tive ee on oe ae  I can assure you the photograph
  :  6 of this Bureau,

  Enclosed indsome wathetal ialetion tirr thepore of
  this Bureau which I hope will be of interest to you.  Also, the
  photograph you forwarded is being returned.

  MAILED 19  Sincerely yours,
  OCT3  1967  J. Eager  +
  gar  Ho,
  P
  COMM - FBI  Ver
  ie
  ul SL t
  lf

  Enclosures (3)
  Know Your FBI
  The Story of the Federal Bureau. of Investigation
  NOTE: Correspondent is hot identifiable in Bufiles. The photograph in
  question has previously come to the Bureau's attention and is known to
  have appeared in a publication in Europe concerning unidentified flying
  objectss. A caption undef.the photograph alleges twoWBI Agents are
rei q(0 leading a1 from outer space down the street.
  ‘Pepai)  brn  bie  A \ ae  if
  mat Room C_] Tevetype unit  ‘ he  i  %  4
  d0H$ia°0-334
  he a i
ie

  éliftPesoeVIlyay
  TRUE COPY

  Would you please comment on the enclosed

picture that is marked with an ''X" and return the picture

with your reply.  Thank you.

  /s/  Ray Robinson
  809 S. Stewart St.
  Winchester, Va.  22601
  dOHSI8 G-93¥
  esceees:
  19 HY S2 OL  82 4%

WOLoTUId  Z
ENCI OSURE C2-
  OPTIONAL  FORM NO. 10  010-107-027
  MAY  1962 ED)
  oi  SEN. ned. No.
  7

  UNITED STATES Sq:  @

  Memorandum
  ,  DIRECTOR,  FBI  DATE:  10/10/67

  |
  GY DALLAS  (62-0)
  \WY

SUBJECT:  NIDENTIFIED  FLYING OBJECTS;
  ANONYMOUS  INFORMANT
  DALLAS,  TEXAS,  10/9/67
  INFORMATION CONCERNING

  Enclosed  are  six  copies  of  an  LHM  containing  information
  of  interest  to  the  Air  Force.  One  copy  has  been  furnished  to
  OSI,  Tinker AFB,  Oklahoma,

  The  information  in  the  enclosed  LHM  was  received  by
  SA  EARL O.  CULLUM.

  No  further  information  is  being  taken.

  2--  Bureau  (encls-6)  ,  IU
  I -  Dallas  >  18 OCT €@ 1967

  ot) A
  .,  VY
  OCT 19 1967
  iy U.S. Savings Bonds Regularly on the Payroll Savings Plan
  (0

  OWIYAT  Gs
  TVUANHOUAL
  @\OL  .  GAXaT
  DAIMALI“OD  VOLT AMAOANL

aolismrotal  zoinisiaos  M  mg  to  e9iqoo xte  o18  beeol
  ot  badetatut  nood  fl  yqos  on0  .99107  trA  od OF  Fao19tNT  te
  esmodaslAO  ,a4A  toAntT  , feo

  ud  bovisoet  esw  MHI  boeolons  ods  ai  aoitsmrotat  oA
  -MUIIUS  .O

  .m9xAss.  gnioed  notismtotai  tod

  (@-elone)  usotus
  eailsd
  gees
  UNITED  STATES DEPARTMENT OF  JUSTICE

  FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

  Dallas,  Texas
In Reply, Plogse Refer
File No.
  to  October 10, , 1967

  Re:  UNIDENTIFIED FLYING OBJECTS;
  ANONYMOUS  INFORMANT
  DALLAS,  TEXAS.
  “OCTOBER 9,  1967

  A  young  white  female,  who  refused  to  give  her  name,
  appeared  at  the  Dallas  FBI  Office  on  October  9,  1967.  She
  stated  she  is  interested  in  Unidentified  Flying  Objects  (UFOs)
  and  has  received  a  quantity  of  information  concerning  beings
  from  outer  space.  She  stated  she  will  not  reveal  her  identity
  as  she  would  feel  like  a  fool  if  this  information  is  not  true.
  She  stated  if  it  is  true,  however, she  will  meet  with  interested
  officials  and  furnish  all  the  information  she  has,  provided
  nothing  is  done  to  endanger  her  safety.

  She  stated  in  July,  1967,  she  met  a  being  from  another
  planet  who  had  assumed  earthly form.  He gave her certain
  information,  then  he  was picked up and departed from the earth
  on  August  21,  1967.  She  stated  she  then  received messages  from
  non-earthly  sources  in  a  manner  she  refused  to  discuss.  She
  stated  these  sources  told  her  of  the  following:

  (1)  An  antimissile missile was  fired at  a UFO
  over  Africa  on  May  22,  1962,  but  the  UFO
  was  protected  by  its  "force  field."

  (2)  A UFO was detected 22,000 miles  from earth by
  radar about  August  6,  1967.

  (3)  A UFO was detected over Antartica August 20,
  1967.

  (4)  A UFO was detected over the "Dewline” in the
  past  week  and  was  shot  down,  and beings  from
  outer  space  are  trying  to  recover it.
  3

  Informant  would  furnish  no  further  details.  She  stated
  if  this  information  is  true,  she  will  knéw  other  information

  This  document  contains  neither  recommendations
  nor  conclusions  of  the  FBI.  It  is  the  property
  of  the  FBI  and  is  loaned  to  your  agency.  It  and
  its  contents  are  not  to  be  distributed  outside
  your
  agen
  cy.
  2
  p
  s
  46
  yf

  ENCLOSURE  =
  esxoT  ,2asi
  yoer  [

  LEO  DKTYIT

  + OM  i  ovis  91 sN9
  ont  wvoelk: Ye  to  la  eds  ts  bors  GB

  nik  ei  ose  botste
  (20TU)  asosidO gni  rtmebiny  at

  egnisd  sata  1  tismrotar  to  jasup  &  beviooos  ead  bas
  ditnobi  19  Isovor  om  LLtw  oda  bots ge  ofie  .998Gge  totvo  mort
  ef  nolismrots  ai  {3  t£  Loot  &  9Xif  Ie9t  biuc  Ww  o9d2  28
  OUTS
bo  tosak  iw  w  oe  ,s9vewod  on"  ei  It  ti botste oda
  babivorc  ead  ae  oitsmrotat  {Is  mtut  ts efstol
  -viotse  ‘sof  ‘rondebao  ¢  anc  b  et  vain

  one
  evoReL  oy  botsze  of
  aH  “50%  ridin 5  bomuees  bad  ow  anstg
  oiingeb  bas  qu  bodoia  esw  od  nodd  oi T Barc  t
  »vionet  mods  onde  botsije  one  oer  $2

  been  ede  T9nnsin  &  ak  Bo  iyo

  niwollot  sis  to  ton  blot
  45102

  imi  Fes
  0
  RB:
  i
  botssto10  2a8w

  bojo939b  esw
  suods  SDET

  b9  29

  esw

  =

  -8@ifssab  ykal

  fre  fismrotak  sodt  nrotns  ain

  2/U90b

  t9qgotq  ost  ofeau  noo

  si  ot  boasol  Das  rai  odd
  ebfetuo  ad  to  8  eins tnc9
  UNIDENTIFIED FLYING OBJECTS;
  ANONYMOUS INFORMANT
  DALLAS, TEXAS
  OCTOBER 9, 1967

sé  received  is  true,  and  will  furnish  full  details.  This  will
include  information regarding the  destruction  of  a moon  explorer
vehicle  by  beings  from  outer  space,  and  how  those  beings  shot
down  the Russian Cosmonaut.

  She  stated  she  fears  for  her  life  if  it  becomes  known
she  contacted  officials,  as  persons  who  saw  UFOs  have  died
mysteriously  in  the  past.  She  stated  if  Air  Force  officials
want  to  contact  her  she  can  be  reached  by  a  message  to  a  telephone
number  she  has  given  an  FBI  Agent,  and  she  will  meet  officials
at  the Dallas  FBI  Office  only.
  UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

  FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

In Reply, Please Refer to  Dallas, Texas
File No.  October  10,  1967

  Re:  UNIDENTIFIED FLYING OBJECTS;
  ANONYMOUS INFORMANT
  DALLAS, TEXAS
  OCTOBER 9, 1967

  A young white female,  who refused to give her name,
  appeared at the Dallas FBI Office on October 9, 1967.  She
  stated she is interested in Unidentified Flying Objects (UFOs)
  and has received a quantity of information concerning beings
  from outer space.  She stated she will not reveal her identity
  as she would feel  like a  fool  if this information is not  true.
  She stated if it is true, however, she will meet with interested
  officials and furnish all the information she has, provided
  nothing is done to endanger her safety.

  She stated in July, 1967, she met a being from another
  planet who had assumed earthly form.  He gave her certain
  information, then he was picked up and departed from the earth
  on August 21, 1967.  She stated she then received messages from
  non-earthly sources in a manner she refused to discuss.  She
  stated these sources told her of the following:

  (1)  An antimissile missile was fired at a UFO
  over Africa on May 22, 1962, but the UFO
  was protected by its “force field."

  (2)  A UFO was detected 22,000 miles from earth by
  radar about August 6,  1967.

  (3)  Jae was detected over Antartica August 20,
  1967.

  (4)  A UFO was detected over the "Dewline” in the
  past week and was shot down,  and beings from
  outer space are trying to recover it.

  Informant would furnish no further details.  She stated
  if this information is true, she will know other information

  This document contains neither recommendations
  nor conclusions of the FBI.  It is the property
  of the FBI and is loaned to your agency.  It and
  its contents are not to be distributed outside
  your  agency.
Re:  UNIDENTIFIED FLYING OBJECTS;
  ANONYMOUS INFORMANT
  DALLAS, TEXAS
  OCTOBER 9, 1967

ee received is true, and will furnish full details.  This will
include information regarding the destruction of a moon explorer
vehicle by beings from outer space, and how those beings shot
down the Russian Cosmonaut.

  She stated she fears for her life if it becomes known
she contacted officials, as persons who saw UFOs have died
mysteriously in the past.  She stated if Air Force officials
want to contact her she cam be reached by a message to a telephone
number she has given an FBI Agent, and she will meet officials
at  the Dallas PBI Office only.
  UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

  FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

In  o Refeé:  Dallas,  Texas
pt
 da eae  October
  10, 1967

  Re:  UNIDENTIFIED FLYING OBJECTS;

  A young white female,  who refused to give her name,
  appeared at the Dallas FBI Office on October 9, 1967.  She
  stated she is interested in Unidentified Flying Objects (UFOs)
  and has received a quantity of information concerning beings
  from outer space.  She stated she will not reveal her identity
  as she would feel  like a  fool  if this  information is not  true,
  She stated if it is true, however, she will meet with interested
  officials and furnish all the information she has, provided
  nothing is done to endanger her safety.

  She stated in July, 1967, she met a being from another
  planet who had assumed earthly form.  He gave her certain
  information, then he was picked up and departed from the earth
  on August 21, 1967.  She stated she then received messages from
  non-earthly sources in a manner she refused to discuss.  She
  stated these sources told her of the following:

  (1)  An antimissile missile was fired at a UFO
  over Africa on May 22,  1962,  but the UFO
  was protected by  its  “force field.”

  (2)  A UFO was detected 22,000 miles from earth by
  radar about August 6,  1967.

  (3)  A  ag was detected over Antartica August 20,
  1  .

  (4)  A UFO was detected over the "Dewline” in the
  past week and was shot down,  and beings from
  outer space are trying to recover it.

  Informant would furnish no further details.  She stated
  if  this  information  is  true,  she will knéw other information

  This document contains neither recommendations
  nor conclusions of the FBI.  It is the property
  of the FBI and is loaned to your agency.  It and
  its contents are not to be distributed outside
  your agency.
  UNIDENTIFIED FLYING OBJECTS;
  ANONYMOUS INFORMANT
  DALLAS, TEXAS
  OCTOBER 9, 1967

She received is  true,  and will  furnish full details.  ‘This will
inelude information regarding the destruction of a moon explorer
vehicle by beings from outer space, and how those beings shot
Gewn the Russian Cosmonaut.

  She stated she fears  for her  life if  it  becomes known
she contacted officials, as persons who saw UFOs have died
mysteriously in the past.  She stated if Air Force officials
want  to contact  her she can  be  reached  by a message  to a  telephone
number she hag given an FBI Agent,  and  she will  meet officiale
at the Dallas PBI Office only.
  7  s
  UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

  FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

In Reply, Please Refer to  Dallas, Texas
File No.  October  10,  1967

  Re:  UNIDENTIFIED FLYING OBJECTS;
  ANONYMOUS  INFORMANT
  DALLAS, TEXAS
  OCTOBER 9, 1967

  A young white female,  who refused to give her name,
  appeared at the Dallas FBI Office on October 9, 1967.  She
  stated she is interested in Unidentified Flying Objects (UFOs)
  and has received a quantity of information concerning beings
  from outer space.  She stated she will not reveal her identity
  as she would feel like a fool if this information is not true.
  She stated if it is true, however, she will meet with interested
  officials and furnish all the information she has, provided
  nothing is done  to endanger her safety.

  She stated in July,  1967,  she met a  being from another
  planet who had assumed earthly form.  He gave her certain
  information, then he was picked up and departed from the earth
  on August 21, 1967.  She stated she then received messages from
  non-earthly sources  in a manner she refused to discuss.  She
  stated these sources told her of the following:

  (1)  An antimissile missile was fired at a UFO
  over Africa on May 22, 1962, but the UFO
  was protected by its "force field."

  (2)  A UFO was detected 22,000 miles from earth by
  radar about August 6,  1967.

  (3)  A UFO was detected over Antartica August 20,
  1967.

  (4)  A UFO was detected over the "Dewline” in the
  past week and was shot down, and beings  from
  outer space are trying to recover it.

  Informant would furnish no further details. She stated
  if this information is true, she will knOw other information

  This document contains neither recommendations
  nor conclusions of  the FBI.  It  is  the property
  of the FBI and is loaned to your agency.  It and
  its contents are not to be distributed outside
  your  agency.
  UNIDENTIFIED FLYING OBJECTS;
  ANONYMOUS  INFORMANT
  DALLAS, TEXAS
  OCTOBER 9,  1967

Shé received is true, and will furnish full details.  This will
include information regarding the destruction of a moon explorer
vehicle  by beings  from outer space,  and how those  beings shot
éawn the Russian Cosmonaut.

  She stated she fears for her life if it becomes known
she contacted officials, as persons who saw UFOs have died
mysteriously in the past.  She stated if Air Force officials
want  to  contact  her she can be reached by a message to a telephone
number she  has  given an FBI Agent, and she will meet officials
at  the Dallas PBI Office only.
  ‘OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10  s010-107-02
  MAY 1982 EDITION

  >
-  GSA GEN.  REG. NO. 77

  -.| “UNITED STATES GQ@gRNMENT
  “Memorandum
  DIRECTOR,  FBI  DATE:  1/23/68

  AC,  DALLAS  (C)
  (62-1311)

  IDENTIFIED FLYING OBJECTS
  MISCELLANEOUS -
  YNFORMATION CONCERNING

  There is  enclosed  for  the Bureau  e Xerox copy of a
  letter dated 11/20/67, from Mr. ROBERT Gy  WARDS, 1736 Northaven  [%
  Court, Arlington, Texas  76010, receiv;  by the Dallas Office on
  1/19/68 in an envelope postmarked at Arlington, Texas, 1/17/68.

  The encl  letter reflects the  formation of a
  subcommittee of th@(National Investigations Committee on Aerial
  Phenomena  (NICAP)*  in  the Dallas - Fort Worth area,  the purpose
  of which organization is to conduct  scientific  investigation
  of finidentified flying objects.  ~;  YAS

  This letter has been acknowledged and a copy of same
  has  been  furnished OSI, Tinker AFB for its information.

  The acknowledgement  to Mr. EDWARDS pointed out  to him that
  information concerning unidentified flying objects received by
  this bureau is,  by requirement, currently furnished to the u.  Ss.
  Air  Force.  C44  -,
  CF  ae

  ie
  C+ - Bureau (ene¥1)
  1  -
  RPG: jeg
  Dallas  2/
  Y
  REG. 74
  :  5
  ;
  bZ ee Oe y Ge Vos
  pop

  (3)
  EA-LU  2d

Bier  2 1968
  Buy U.S. Savings Bonds Regularly on the Payroll Savings Plan
  s
  58  odd  tot  4
  TAIGOA  .1M  mort
  yd bevisos1 ,OL008T3  asxoT ~anotuntith
  taniicA  ts boeaArsmt2oq sdaolevas as at

  to  notismiot  os  etoofier  rostol  besaolono  onl
3  190  99stimmoD  enolissiseoval  Isnotish  odd  to sods  immoodue
seoqtug  odd  ,soxrs dy1OW  F1oF  eatiasd  9:5  (QASIM).  sromonodd
  tsgitesval  oktisaetoe  dJoubsos  Xa  riesiageyto  doidw  to
  ivit  boititaebias  to

  yqoo  s  bas  boxsbolwontos  mood  esd  tostol  Edt
  .dotismiotar  ett  tot  GIA  st9aAntT  .1e0 bodetars)  aged  esi

  tuo  badatac  1c  T  .xK  oF taomegbolwondtos oT
  bovios  atootde  iy  tinobiau aninresoaoo nofrsagmxotas
  ods  of  bodetarut  yi  inometiupst  yd  .at  vested  aid
  ,9010%  tis

  (f£-f909)  sR9-
  eaiisd
  not:
  20 November 1967

  Robert G.  Edwards
  1736 Northaven Court
  Arlington,  Texas  76010

  Request for Information on Sightings of  Unidentified Aerial
  Phenomena in the Dallas-Ft.  Worth Area

1.  A  subcommittee of the National Investigations Committee on  -
Aerial Phenonema, (NICAP), has recently | been established in the Dallas-
Ft: Worth area.  NICAP isa private, non-profit organization directed by
Major D.  E.Keyhoe,..USMC (Ret) from the National Headquarters in
Washington,  D.  C.  The purpose of the organization is to conduct scientific
investigation of Unidentified
  Flying  Objects.  It now has  14, 000 associate
members in 50 states.  The organization is not interested in the alleged
psychic,  occult,  mystical,  or religious aspects of UFO phenomena.

vA  NICAP subcommittees, of which there are 30 in the United
States,  are composed of qualified individuals in technical or investigative
fields,  who are selected and appointed by the Washington office.

3.  NICAP is currently working closely with the Colorado Project,
a comprehensive study of UFO's begun in November 1966,  by a group of
distinguished scientists at the University of Colorado under a U.  S.  Air
Force contract,

4.  The local subcommittee earnestly solicits your support in

reporting to the Committee Chairman any UFO sightings occuring in this
area.  It is especially important that the NICAP committee be contacted
immediately in cases of reported UFO sightings where photographs have
been taken or physical evidence remains after the observation.

  Robert G. Edwards”
  Subcommittee Chairman
  Texas Unit #2
  Phone  CR  5-1784
;  Lb y  March 19, 1968
Mr, Glenn Evans
Route 4
Waterloo, Illinois  62298

Dear Mr. Evans:

  Your letter of March 14th, with enclosure, has
been received.

  The investigation of Unidentified Flying Objects
is not and never has been a matter that is within the investigative jurisdiction of the FBI,  I can assure you the photograph
you mentioned does not represent employees of this Bureau.

  Sincerely yours,

  J. Edgar Hoover
  John Edgar Hoover
  Director

NOTE:  Bufiles contain no record of correspondent.  The photograph
in question has previously come to the Bureau's attention and is known
to have appeared in a publication,in Europe concerning an  ‘Unidentified
  flying (objects. A caption,under the photograph alleges two FBI Agents
are leading a person from outer space down the street.

ED:mew
8)  /ayiee

  watfogyEa)  teveryee unr]
  284
now ONIGVEY OSU
G9. id 80 1b MR
  TRUE COPY

Dear Sir

  My name is Glenn Evans I work for the“United
Saucer Hunter Organization, I am writting this in regard to
a report that the FB.I had captured a saucer occupant this was
published in a flying saucer mag. along with a photo of two
alleged FBI agents and a saucer occupant. is this true? does
the FBI really have a saucer man?

  Very truly
  /s/

  Glenn Evans
  U.S.H.O.
 UNITED  SAUCER  HUNTER  ORGANIZATION

BOB  ZANOTI  GLENN  EVANS
WFMC  RADIO  RURAL  ROUTE 4
W.  VIRGINIA  WATERLOO, ILLINOIS
  March 18,  1968
  GS 038
  4  AIRMAIL

  10/
Miss Jane Ferry
1304 Descanso\Drive
La Canada, California  91011

Dear Miss Ferry:

  I have received your letter of March 15th.

  Although I would like to be of assistance, matters
pertaining to Unidentified Flying Objects are not within the
jurisdiction of the FBI.

  lam referring a copy of your communication to
the Director of Special Investigations, The Inspector General,
Department of the Air Force, Washington, D. C. 20333 for any
help he is in a position to offer you.

  Sincerely yours,

  J. Edgar Hoover

NOTE:  Correspondent could not ide
  ntified in Bufiles.

SAW:mer (3)
  Q@4

nOO¥ ONIGVAY-0,998

Wend tL €  ol Mh
  sae
  TRUE COPY

Dear Sir,  FLY  SH

  Iam a student at Glendale City College in Glendale,
California.  This semester I'm doing a research paper on U. F. O.'s.
I was wondering if you could send me any information you might have
regarding the U. F. O. controversy.  I would appreciate it very much
if you could send me this information before March 20th as I would
like to get started as soon as possible.  Thank you very much for your
time.

  Sincerely yours,

  Jane Ferry  tics {
  1304 Descanso Drive
  La Canada, Calif.  91011

P.S.  If you can't possibly get the information to me by the 20th,
I would appreciate it if it was sent to me as close to that date as
possible.

  REC 58

  st 403)
  ROSIE IY = Gok BEF

  CHANGED TO

MAY 291968

BZ ar  VSS
  March 19, 1969

  John Edgar Hoover
  United States Department of Justice
  Federal Bureau of Investigation
  Washington 25, D.C.

  Dear Mr, Hoovers

  December 7, 1963, I observed in the sky at Moorestown, New Jersey, an
  umasual object and its unusual behavior, On December 8, 1963, just
  2h hours later at Elkton, Maryland, the Pan American Aircraft with 73
  passengers and a crew of eight perished when this aircraft exploded in
  mid air and crashed,

  I sent a tape recording of the observation I had made on December 7,
  to Mr. J. Edgar Hoover and associated this object with the crash of
  this plane.  Mr. Hoover informed me that the Civil Aeronautics Board
  was investigating this disaster and what I had sent to him would be
  forwarded to them, the C.A.B.
  ff
  In the month of March, 1965, the C.A.B., released a report that thi/s!/
  accident and cause was due to  a lightning strike.

  I protested to Senator  Case of New Jersey.  Senator Case mailed me
  the official report by the C.A.B.,  along with a letter by a Mr. John
  Dregge, Director Community and Congressional Relations.

  Upon reading the Official C.A.B. report on this accident and also
  this letter I have come to the conclusion that neither the C.A.B. or
  the writer of this letter know what they are talking about and have
  missed the point completely.

  I claimed that the object  which I seen was laying air mines and
  that this aircraft was destroyed by contact with one of these mines.

  To substantiate my claim I would refer you to page 8 line 20 to line
  2h inclusive of this report File #1-0015. Boeing 707-121 N709PA Pan
  American World Airways, Inc., near Elkton, Maryland, December 8,

  170
  pen <2-18074.
  a

  phe
  636

  25 MAR‘27 i969

  CHRON ENC
APR4  1969
  ga wy tt Lhe
  +4(

Ap b9/ Bap oureyrd
 B96}0 | Ud¥ SNOON!
age 8 line 20 to line 25  inclusive reads as follows:

(Metal splatters on the leading edge of the horizontal stabilizer were
 identified by spectrographic analysis as being formed from two
 different aluminum alloys,  However, these alloys could not be
 identified since the chemical composition of the deposits did not
 conform to any alloy used in the airplane.  The long axis of the
 deposits varied from 18 degrees inboard to  degrees outboard.)

On July 18, 1964, I made another observation, the details of which
I sent to Harvard College Observatory, Cambridge, Mass. (This
sighting was Astronomical not a man made object), a copy of their
return letter is enclosed,

Somehow both of these  observations had something in common,  the
color.  I proceeded to experiment and have arrived at the following
conclusions, after several hundred experiments had taken place.

I have bought books  on Astronomy and also books  on Flying Saucers.
I know that this object was not astronomical in any way nor was it a
Flying Saucer,

This object was a cleverly design missle camouflaged to appear as a
Meteor or as a Flying Saucer.

However, this missle failed to operate as planned that is how I tas
able to see the complete details of the color and also the design,
which I furnished to  the government.  I also  know why  this design
was used and also why  the  colors were arranged as they were.  My
experiments proved this.

Thru my experiments I have been able to determine the followings

  Where they get the tremendous speed from.
  The wobbling effect they have on occasion.
  Appearing to osGillate about their vertical axis,
  Why they make no noise, condensation, or exhaust.
  Whoshing and wheezing, humming noise on occasions.
  Different colors they have.
  Pulsating light.-Luminous appearance,
  Different forms and shape.

These objects are constantly being sent over both the North and South
Americas by Russia,  Anyone seeing these objects are instantly
responsive as to a flying  saucer,  Subjected to  ridicule  if this be
mentioned to  any one,  and/or reported to the  authorities,
 Russia is « aware of this fact and has capitalized upon this fact.
 They have in this way been able to penetrate our Radar System undetected.

 To conclude:

 The present situation can be blamed upon the various governmental
 agencies who in the past  have scoffed at and ridiculed people who
 have reported these sightings.

 Now we are about to pay with 60,000,000 American lives or more.
 "Some price",

 Our one hope is that Russia and China will go to war against one another,
 This then will give us time to created an effective and efficient Radar
 system that cannot be penetrated,

 I am not a Phophet of Doom, just an American Citizen who is concerned
 about the future of America.

  Sincerely yours  9

  duetof Uae Ape
  A ILoe’
  dosnt
  £  ‘>
 A copy of this letter is being sent to the £10 ng people:
President Nixon  f  ee
J. Edgar Hoover
Senator Case of New Jersey
Senator Charles  H.  Percy of Illinois
Melvin Laird,  Secretary of Defense
  HARVARD COLLEGE OBSERVATORY
  CAMBRIDGE 38, MASSACHUSETTS

  July 28,  1964

Mr. Edward A.  Stewart,  Jr.
152  Mount  Holly Avenue
Mount Holly,  New Jersey

Dear Mr.  Stewart:

  The object you  saw was a bright meteor, sometimes
called a "fireball" or a"bolide".  Almost all very
bright meteors  are small  bodies moving in orbits  rather
like  the  orbits  of asteroids,  and probably are fragments
of asteroids.  The  direction of motion  of your meteor
is  consistent  with  that  sort  of  orbit.  A  good many
bright meteors  strike  the  earth  each  day,  but most  go
unnoticed.  We  have  received another  report  of  the  same
meteor  from Wilmington,  Delaware.

  I am sending your observation to the Moonwatch
Division of the  Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory
here  in Cambridge,  which has  a  continuing program for
analysis  of  visual  observations  of bright meteors.
Since  it  is very rarely possible for the professional
astronomer  to  observe  these  meteors,  most  of what  is
known about  them  depends  on  this  sort  of  lucky  chance.

  Sincerely yours,

  fiheol
  7h. be
  Tionthe
  Richard B;¥Southworth
  May 7, 1969

Mr. Lon  M7  me  Ls
Eastern Representative
  tional Investigations Committee
  on Unidentified Flying Objects
717 Gless Avenue
Belleville, New Jersey  07109

Dear Mr. Cerame:

  I have received your letter of April 30th
concerning an article you are preparing on Aerial Phenomena.

  Although I would like to be of assistance, matters
pertaining to Unidentified Flying Objects and Aerial Phenomena
are not within the jurisdiction of the FBI.  I regret we are unable
to be of help.

  Sincerely yours,

  J, Edgar Hoover
NOTE: Our files contain no information identifiable with correspondent,

JCF :pls, (5)

  MAILED 10

  MAY 7 1969
  COMM-FBI
  dOHSI8 O-938

  Mes  at
Ane y r*
  AG,  HUTA OO]  2  ow
  National Investigations Committee
  ON UNIOENTIFIED FLYING OBJECTS
  LON  M. CERAME - EASTERN  REPRESENTATIVE

  77 Gless Avenue
  Belleville, N. J. 07109  Phone: 759-4036

  April  30,  1969

Federal  Bureau  of  Investigation
Washington,  D.C.  20535

Attention:  Director

Sir:

I  am  doing  an article  for  an Air  Force megazine  concerning  Aerial
Phenomenon and  other  so-called  flying  objects.
  Z
To help me  out,  I would  like  to know if the Bureau has  ever received
any such reports concerning  the sightings or investigations of such
objects. If so, would it be  possible to send me some reports for use
in my article.

  Very  truly  yours,

  Eastern Rep.  NICOUFO
  ‘OPTIONAL  FORM  NO.  10  5010-106
  MAY 1962  EDITION
  GSA GEN.  REG.  NO.  27

  UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

  Memorandum
  Mr. Gale  \\\.
  |  E:  5/16/69

FROM  W.  V.  Clevelan

SUBJECT:  FORREST E7\ WOOD
  4267  E.  Compton  Boulevard
  Compton, California
  Telephone No. 635-6372
  INFORMATION CONCERNING

  Mr. Wood  telephonically  contacted  the  Bureau at
  12:50 a.m.  5/16/69  and spoke with SA Stephen F. McInerney,
  Special  Investigative  Division.
  Sevctt-

  ~Wood stated he  is  a former CIA Agent  and wanted
  .to  report  to  the  Director  that  recently  he  has  been  seeing
  Ofilyin jobjects.  He requested that the Director call him on
  69  concerning  this matter.  He  was  advised  that
  Mr.  Hoover  would  be  unavailable.

  From Wood's  tone  of  voice  it  appeared  he  was
  intoxicated.  He  advised  that  he  was  recently  discharged
  as a patient from the psycho ward of a Veteran's hospital. | |
  Information in Bureau indices (66-3182-8679)  2
  indicates  individual  possibly  identical  with  captioned
  subject  called Bureau 5/1/69,  at which time he rambled
  about numerous  subjects  and his  speech  indicated he  had
  been drinking.  At that  time no  record  identifiable  with
  Wood was  located  in  Bureau  files.

  ACTION:  For  information.  A check  is  being made with CIA
  to determine  if they have a former agent  identical with Wood.*

  Miss Holmes
  Mr. DeLoach  *  Liaison
  e oe cam 63 iit V— 47a.
  Agent  Papich  caused  complete
  Mr.  Bishop  search  of  CIA  indices regarding Wood
  Mr. Gale  with  negative  results.  WVC:pnh
  9 1969
  Mr. Cleveland
  Mr. McInerney  f op 108  10 MAY |1
  SFM: jb,  d  _—_  — jt

  2

  Su, y 26 1969
  May 21, 1969

  below
  he.
(U
Say:

  hens
  Route 12, ,OklBoxaho206ma 73115
  Mr. Lar
  EX-100 Del City

  Dear Mr. Stephens:

  Mr. Hoover read your letter received on May 19th.
  He asked that I advise you that the FBIhavhas no infor-
  e heard. He
  regarding the rumors you s concerning
  mation it can send to youyou
  also asked that I furnish  the enclosed publication
  our organization.
  g forwarded to
  A copy of your communication is beinthe
  the Office of Special Investigatio ns, Department of  Air Force,
  t.
  Washington, D. C., to which its contents may be of interes
  Sincerely yours,

  Soha  Se
  +9.

  Helen W. Gandy
  2 11969  Secretary

  COMM-FB}

  MAY  Enclosures (2)
  Know Your FBI
  99 facts about the FBI  Yb

  1 - Oklahoma City - Enclosure
  Attention SAC: Correspondent is not identifiable in Bufiles.
  nt's letter is being furnished to the. Office
  NOTE: A copy of correspondeartm
  of Special Investigations, Dep  ent of the Air Force, by form
  “  Li é  J  -,
  DCL:llk (4)
  ¥  4
  94  a |  uv
  wat, Roow'L_vreugrye unit LI  U
  a

  TRUE COPY

May 14,  1969  Rt.  12 Box 206
  Del City, Okla.  73115

Federal Bureau of Investigation
Penn.  Ave.  & 9th.  NW.
Wash., D.C. 19806

Dear Sirs;  /  VA
  There currently are rumors over the grapevine and
in print that suggest men with oriental features wearing dark clothes go
around terrorizing people who have had close-up views of UFO's.
It is also rumored these creatures have impersonated armed forces officers
and FBI investigators.  They are supposed to ride around in black or dark
automobiles that either have old licence tags or none at all.  Several are
reported to have attemped to run down witnesses of UFO sightings,  made
disturbingyalmost macabre phone calls, silenced several investigators who
were supposed to have learned some dark secret about extraterrestial craft
or mission plans and opened mail, tapped telephones and even taken pictures
of several homes where UFO witnesses lived.  ,  f
  4
  Can you give me any information on such rumors?  Or can you
refer me to a source whose facilities can answer my questions?

  this information will help settle some disturbing questions
the readers of my articles.  Personally I am not sure at all whether I can
fully accept these rumours as facts.  I need more information.

  Any information you supply can ease the worries of people
who feel that the objects unknown they see in the sky may portend the visit
of a mysterious visitor.

  . Yours Truly,
  g®  (ily  62-33 fay
  /s/ Mr. Larry-Stephens=~  7-7»
P.S. If there are any pamphets covering tht “FEY 'RGictions you feel I
will need,  please send them along.  es
  Re.12 Box 206
  ak Cty, Ohh.
  Tas

  (Pie Dt Pee Ae
  Wak. OC. 19906

  OC alioage: rene  eerie ea

  acme
  horr-upaariewre of UFOW. Deri aber rumowd His

  oumornt
  at abl, Auk ax pocticl Mo have attinped Le
  > imma  as nctantat tail ULO ag ftingas, aneadle chatinbong
  Abnnroat vrotibie phone caller, dleneed several smsati-

e  ‘a penicl smailed, tapped Llephontes ornel Luend HAE)

  Lured,
By. WE 2s 6 61MM
  D  é

  a etn pol  en te na
© Aisatiost ace apie SCLC
  Gat, a.  NN ecrommen

G7L-3  creamy  ppanpphite coverong He FBI
  4)
eclassified Case: NW#
0986 Date:  04-14-2026

  ‘Bxoupt From
  eee peciass ification Ingerse
  October 13, 1969

  Tf  4 75TM
  a
  Mr. Paul Brassington
  UFO Astronomer Club
  94 Dreyer Drive
  Ajax, Ontario, Canada

  Dear Paul:

  The letter from you,ani Stephen Smith and Gary
  _/ Hargreaves was received on October 8th.  Sey ag
  4

  The investigation of Unidentified Flying Objects is not
  and never has been a matter that is within the investigative jurisdiction
  of the FBI. I can assure you the photograph you mentioned does not
  represent employees of this Bureau.

4WA\  Enclosed is some material relating to the work of this
  Bureau which I hope will be of interest to you.

  Sincerely yours,
  MAILED 4  Ha
  OCT 131969  -  Edgar Hoover

  COMM-FBI

  Enclosures (6)
  3 copies of The Story of the FBI
  3 copies of 99 Facts About the FBI

  NOTE: Correspondents are not identifiable in Bufiles. The photograph in
  question has previously come to the Bureau's attention and is known to have
  appeared in a publication in Europe concerning unidentified flying objects.
  A caption under the photograph alleges two FBI Agents are leading a person
  from outer space down the street.
  UFO  Astronomer
  94. Dreyer Drive
  Ajax,Ontario.
  Canada.
  Dear  Sirs,
  ) Our  club  is  very  interested in th
  study of “Unidentified Flying Objects. We wer
  studying a
  magazine called U"0'S A Pictorial
  and on one of the pagesthere was a picture
  of a supposedly man from outer space who was
  being held by two men.Above the picture it
  Stated  the  the  two  men were  FBI  agents  who
  had  captured  this  man  and were walking down
  b
  Jrive
  an  American  street.It  had  also  stated  that
  the  picture had  first  been published  in  an
  MMAHTAAKGe rman newspaper.There was no other
  reyer  additional information.We would appreciate it
  2
  if you would send us a letter telling us whee
  74
  -ther this is true or untrue.Could you please
  Canada  Send  us  the  information.
  Ne  have  three  members  in  our  club  they
  are  Steve  Smith,13,GaryHHargreaves,12,and
Club  Paul  prassinZvdiig
  ise

  untario  sicereily  Yours  tne
  embers  of  the  UFO
  Astronomers.  y
  Ajax

  Pal, corasngion
 Astronom

  tLs ime  pt 4
  RZ OCT 18 i969

uy
  \
  a.

  sderal  Bureau  of  Investiektio
Washinton  n
  m D.C.
OL. Wi <€ 0)  G2 Nor
  an

  June  20,  1972

  ¢
THE  PENTAGON
Washington,  D.C.

Dear Sirs:

  4

  In approximately seven months or.January, 1972, certain copies of top-secret
documents shall be sent to the New York Times as well as two other newspapers.
These documents are related to,and will be an ostentation of t  involvement of the
pentagon in the controversial "Unidentified Flying Objects" or  "Elying Saucer"'
subject.  It will show that not~only the U.S.  Air Force was involved  in UFO research
but  the other military branches  as well.

  Analysis and the actual conclusions of the classic UFO cases shall be revealed.
This shall be accomplished by zeroxed documents and photographs that General
Wolfe had reviewed when he was head of the Army's UFO support program in the
Pentagon during the Eisenhower  years.

  Sorry, but it  is concluded here that  this is the best course to take because
we feel that the secret UFO investigations are parallel in nature to the Times-  ]
Pentagon Vietnam controversy.  If we are wrong in taking this action,  time will tell

  pe Aus  3 1971

  ——  or

  Ce Ki ¢ cael Kelirned
  bs Bes, ~ NO RCT COMED
  2224/q1  Axper (LO
Blauco 197,
  »

  February 23, 1972

  akC-3 Gy .  GY  &SGU/ YD.

  Miss Mary Beth Martine
  Box 463, Oak Street
  Westmoreland City, Pennsylvania  15692

  Dear Miss Martine:

  I regret that I am unable to comment as you requested
  3)

  in your letter of February 15th.  The investigation of Unidentified

  Flying Objects is not and never has been a matter that is within the

  investigative jurisdiction of the FBI.
  Sincerely yours,

  J, Edgar Hoover

  John Edgar Hoover
  Director

  NOTE:  Bufiles reflect no record of correspondent.

  MLN;je (3)

  fs

“6 (Q) MAR 2
MAIL ROOM []  | TELETYPE uNIT C—
  TRUE COPY

  Box 463 Oak Street
  Westmoreland City, Pa.
  15692
  February 15,  1972

Dear Mr. Hoover,

  I would please like your opinion on U. F.O's. whether or
not you think they exist or not.

  Sincerely,

  Mary Beth Martine

  5

  true copy  “5d,
  »

  a US mio mae

  Sway Ss).1992
Cron raeas a  ry

ae oNae Ne Pee A
mA

  aoeAMAL shy
  Boe ay
  HER
| 34
  DEPARTS QNT OF THE ARMY
  OFFICE OF +H  HIEF OF STAFF FOR INTELLIGENCE,

  WAS MMF TON. 0.C.  20310

  DAMI-DOT-S _ ,  Pate:  23 July 1971
  -

 To:  [  X] FBI Attn: LNO  MR. GRARSW/MAY, RM 1012, 9th & D
  {  ] CIA Attn:  LNO
  [  ] USSS Attn:  LNO
  [  ] clap
  {  ] Nis
  {  ] 0st
  [  ] USAINTC Attn:  Dir  of  Inves
  [  ] USATRR
  [  ]DIA Attn:  DS-6A
  {  ] USASA Attn: Dir of. Security]
  [

  Attached  forwarded  for  your  inform

  Attached  forwarded  for appropriate action.

  No  further  action contemplated  by  this  office.

  Your office will  be  kept  informed  of  status
  of  this  case.

Cys  Furnished:  ALFRED G.  KEGGINS
  LTC,  GS
  eee  CHIEF, CI DIVISION

ACSI.  Form 343
  21  Jan  71

  The office symbols for OACSI
  which will appear in AR 340-12
  ni-
  are obsolete due to a reorga
  zation of OACSI.  Please use
  office symbol that appears on
  this correspondence in
  correspondence addressed to
  this office.
  om  OT

  OPTIONAL FORM No. 10
  MAY 1982 EDITION
  GSA FPMR (41 CFR) 101-11.6

  UNITED STAT.  ‘GOVERNMENT

  Memorandum
  ACTING  DIRECTOR,  FBI  DATE:  3/20/73

  SAN  ANTONIO  (62-0)

  DAVE  T.  OZANNE
  INFORMATION  CONCERNING  "
  a  ,
  00:  SAN ANTONIO  Fl  D1
  Enclosed  for  the  Bureau  are  four  copies  of  an
  LHM  reflecting  information  provided by  Sgt.  PAUL STIGLIANO,
  United  States  Air  Force,  Recruiting  Depot,  Waco,  Texas
  concerning the subject.  One  copy  of  LHM  is  also  being
  furnished to Dallas.

  This  information  is  being  furnished  to  the  Bureau
  for  proper dissemination  to  the  military  due  to  the  partic-  >

  ular request made by the subject concerning UFO (unidentifie  ey
  flying  objects).

  Interview  of  Sgt.  STIGLIANO  was  conducted  by  SA
  RICHARD  T.  JESINGER  of  the  FBI  in  Waco,  Texas  on  3/9/73.

  ——=  eee

  22 mar 261973  |
  ee  ees  Set

  -  Bureau  (Encl.  4) ©
  -  Dallas (Encl.  1)
  1  -  San Antonio  are  [ixonsr \ohrceens
  REVAIe  apg fri

  Pe“kenak Ageredchkowe ¢ co273 IMS  ad  Mypantee

  d
  1973
  Buy U.S. Savings Bonds Regularly on the Payroll Savings Plan
5010-108-02
  v@ {D STATES DEPARTMENT or@srice
  FEDERAL  BUREAU
  OF INVESTIGATION

  San  Antonio,  Texas
In Reply, Please Refer to
File No.
  March  20,  1973

  DAVE  T.  OZANNE

  On  March  9,  1973,  Sergeant  Paul  Stigliano,  United
  States Air Force, Recruiting Office, Professional Building,
  Waco, Texas, advised that a man identifying himself as Dave
  T. Ozanne contacted the night-shift supervisor at the Waco
  Tribune Newspaper, and  inquired regarding any information
  the newspaper could be  able to furnish him concérning any
  unidentified  flying objects  observed  in  the  Waco,  Texas area.
  Ozanne had  identified himself as  a Captain  in  the United States
  Air Force.  Ozanne was described  as having  on  an Air Force
  uniform  with  a  chaplain's  badge  on  the  uniform.  Ozanne  also
  had  in  his  possession  at  the  time  a  folder marked  Top  Secret
  which  contained  pictures  of  various  military  installations.
  No specific  information concerning  these  photos  could  be
  provided by  Sergeant Stigliano.

  Sergeant Stigliano stated that when Ozanne was
  informed that they could provide no information to him he
  left his card which contained his name and the following
  information:
  AVE  '-ft  INEM
  Address:  3311  Bowser, Apartment  209,
  Dallas,  Texas
  Phone:  526-5908

  Sergeant  Stigliano advised that  the  individual  did
  not act in any strange manner, and did not attempt to obtain
  anything other than information from the newspaper.  Sergeant
  Stigliano advised that this information was being furnished
  to  the  proper  authorities  only  for  information  purposes  as
  they  do not  suspect  any  unlawful  activity.

  This document contains neither recommendations nor
  conclusions of the FBI.  It is the property of the FBI and
  is loaned to your agency; it and its contents are not to be
  distributed outside your agency.

  ENCLOSU:
  U Ya STATES DEPARTMENT OF Ore
  FEDERAL  BUREAU
  OF INVESTIGATION

  San Antonio,  Texas
In Reply, Please Refer to
File No.
  March  20,  1973

  DAVE T.  OZANNE

  On March  9,  1973,  Sergeant  Paul  Stigliano,  United
  States Air Force, Recruiting Office, Professional Building,
  Waco, Texas, advised that a man identifying himself as Dave
  T. Ozanne contacted the night-shift supervisor at the Waco
  Tribune Newspaper, and  inquired  regarding any  information
  the newspaper could be able to furnish him concerning any
  unidentified flying objects observed in the Waco, Texas area.
  Ozanne had identified himself as a Captain in the United States
  Air Force.  Ozanne was described as having on an Air Force
  uniform with a chaplain's badge on the uniform.  Ozanne also
  had in his possession at the time a folder marked Top Secret
  which contained pictures of various military installations.
  No specific  information concerning these  photos  could be
  provided by  Sergeant  Stigliano.

  Sergeant  Stigliano  stated  that when  Ozanne was
  informed that they could provide no information to him he
  left his card which contained his name and the following
  information:

  Address:  3911  Bowser, Apartment  209,
  per  Dallas, Texas
  Phone:  526-5908

  Sergeant  Stigliano advised that the  individual did
  not  act  in  any  strange  manner, and did  not  attempt  to obtain
  anything other than information from the newspaper.  Sergeant
  Stigliano advised that this information was being furnished
  to the proper authorities only for information purposes as
  they do not suspect any unlawful activity.

  This  document  contains  neither recommendations nor
  conclusions of the  FBI.  It  is  the property of the  FBI  and
  is loaned to your agency; it and  its  contents  are not  to  be
  distributed outside your agency.
  U . 3 D STATES DEPARTMENT OF Osrce
  FEDERAL  BUREAU  OF  INVESTIGATION

  San  Antonio,  Texas
In Reply, Please Refer to
File No.
  March  20,  1973

  DAVE T.  OZANNE

  On March 9, 1973, Sergeant Paul Stigliano, United
  States Air Force, Recruiting Office, Professional Building,
  Waco, Texas, advised that a man identifying himself as Dave
  T. Ozanne contacted the night-shift supervisor at the Waco
  Tribune Newspaper, and inquired regarding any information
  the newspaper could be able to furnish him concerning any
  unidentified flying objects observed in the Waco, Texas area.
  Ozanne had identified himself as a Captain in the United States
  Air Force.  Ozanne was described as having on an  Air Force
  uniform with a chaplain's badge on the uniform.  Ozanne also
  had  in his  possession  at  the  time  a  folder marked  Top  Secret
  which  contained  pictures  of  various  military  installations.
  No specific  information concerning these  photos  could  be
  provided by  Sergeant Stigliano.

  Sergeant Stigliano stated that when Ozanne was
  informed that they could provide no information to him he
  left his card which contained his name and the following
  information:

  Address:  3911  Bowser, Apartment  209,
  5  Dallas,  Texas
  Phone:  526-5908

  Sergeant Stigliano advised that the individual did
  not act in any strange manner, and did not attempt to obtain
  anything other than information from the newspaper.  Sergeant
  Stigliano advised that this information was being furnished
  to the proper authorities only for information purposes as
  they do not suspect any unlawful activity.
  «.

  This  document  contains  neither recommendations  nor
  conclusions  of  the  FBI.  It  is  the  property  of  the  FBI  and
  is loaned to your agency; it and  its  contents  are not  to  be
  distributed outside your agency.
  0  October  25,  1973

  ony|
  M ir.
  1 30  East  Francis  Avenue
  La  Habra,  California  90631

  Dear  Mr.  Praide:

  In  reply  to  your  letter  received  on  October  23rd,

  the  investigation  of  Unidentified  Flying  Objects  is  not  and

  never  has  matter  that  is  within  the  investigative

  jurisdiction  of  the  FBI.  Therefore,  I  cannot  comment  as  you

  suggested.  I  regret  that  a  1rable  to  be  of  assistance  in

  this  instance.

  Sincerely  yours,
  C. M. Kelley

  Clarence  Kelley
  Di  or

  NOTE:  Correspondent  is  not  identifiable  in  Bufiles.

  jkb:cme  (3)

Assoc.  Dir,

Asst.  Dir
 Admin.

 Comp. Syst

 Ext. Affoirs
 Files  & Com.  __
 Gen. Inv.

 Ident.

 Laboratory —

 Plan. & Eval.

Talon PLOGINO
tn Co

  NOV  9 [Z_3iy a ELETYPE UNIT [_] a
  | ROOM
Director See'y —_
  KON FRAIDE

  Se  re  <=  IBo ©. FRANCISAM
  LA HABRA; CALI FORNG
  3
  THURSDAY, OCTOREE 18/97
  Ln_babKa  bal,
  DYile
  pS ee  3S
  eit
  eA  (Fe  THESE
  SE  Wrou yrs  belies Sy a Sd alAe
  Sr ea uH TI ng cs  [IN  THE Set See
  (Cs ee Sa
  or -E  A )  S e e T H  e e e  Aye SEEN
  4 i al
  s( G H  U N  G s  R S(eHT Heres
  K  U MErPROCUS
  eAeS EAE eae  CALIEOR NIA. WHAT
  ES S ea e [P s asl) Sok e eee S L S e oSie et
  E= CR
  7 Heese FAHSETSERTOSVI  NG  TA AiNes* =: bee
  H O S  Gas
  Se Ae  T  IG  H TIN G S  A R C
r)
  S T ra te  s  FR O M  TH  E  A TL A N TI C.
  (Cyc yes Mamas a SOCAG! s:/= ey ae ae! COAST AN
  Sj
  & ea

  Ce e AO  Se a w2 P ia n  CO Seer
  Ceas e ge a a t
  p  to  P  R ES ID E NT AU N,
  Be R
  H e EN
  E
  OW
  rP
  S
  o
  Va
  e
  i
  Te
  Ee n aa Mis e s ee  s
  MAYB E  Seo. iN THIS
  SCARING Geemertei Sew eS
  cowTer THkeOUT Eore troee of THE
  (a aos)= Loo  r A BO U N D W A S Ha h
  G S Se e
  S peer N EAS XD REG KOE BH? O
  Your ANSW
  ae eae
  lee aC
  E S + H AN E Y O  —  —  ’
  ie ee  fa  WB oct-301973
“1 ae  Youss Silieses!
  Azach  _}\\
  See a ee OR ees rot
  Roz
 @  ae
  April  15,  1974
  1  -  Mr. Mintz

  a

  Apartment 2
  2904  South  13th  Road
  Arlington,  Virginia  22204

  Dear  Mr.  Bryant:

  Your  letter was  received  on April  3rd.

  In response to your request for information from
  FBI files regarding your activities in the unidentified
  flying objects research field, please be advised that we
  have no such information in our files except copies of prior
  correspondence with you and a record of your September, 17,
  1963, interview.  Therefore, we have no documents to send
  to you and cannot  further  comply with  your request.

  Sincerely yours,

  &. M. Kelley
  Clarence  M.  Kelley
  Director

  1  -  Norfolk  -  Enclosure
  Attention:  Special Agent Steve Boyle.
  1 - Bufile 62-115530 (FOI-REPLIES
  NOTE:  Bufiles reflect prior correspondence with Bryant  regard-
  ing UFO's of which copies have been made and are being furnished
  to him.  Data pertaining to the interview is contained in
  an incoming airtel from Norfolk dated 9/24/63.  SA Steve Boyle
  of the Norfolk Office was contacted and apparently the interview
  of Bryant in 1963 was initiated because of voluminous correspon-
  dence which Bryant had sent to Federal and military as well as
  law enforcement agencies.
  MAILED 20  \  7

  APR151974 |  “ON
Intell,  FBI

Loborotory

  es
  Nie?
  TELETYPE UNIT [
  :
  BI A R Y 30
  A
  r o e 4d
  ive
  fh C|
  w 3°  ;
  h }

 a a  a
o  a
  a  hLGt
  Hd t o sss

  ye
We  ? )
  on
  290 South 13th Road - Apt 2
  Arlington,  Virginia  22204
  March 31,  1974

Director
Federal Bureau of  Investigation
Nashington,  D.  C.

Dear Sir:  Peg  ae
  On September 17, 1963, Mr. John S. Castles, an FBI agent of the Newport

News, Va.  contingent,  visited me at my place of employment (Ft. Eustis, Va.)

  to interview me as to my  interest in the  subject  of  unidentified  flying

objects (UFO's).  I understand that Mr. Castles prepared a formal report of

that  interview.

  Since President Nixon recently has expressed his intention  to assure that

the  privacy and  civil  liberties  of individual  citizens  receive the protection

they deserve under our form of government,  it  is in  the spirit of that assurance

that  I respectfully request that you send me a copy of Mr. Castles'  report along

with a copy  of all other documents  in your  files pertaining to my activities  in

  ¥324Y7¢_T  4}
  EX-11] Yours eon, = 4 we:
  RECO (/
the UFO-research field.  -  V2  ¢

  Sr Mra  a 1A 16  12
  canons  met  5  SETS
  Larry W.  Bryant  =~

Copy furnished to:  Director, Washington,  D.  C.  Office,  American Civil Liberties Unien

  gs,  N\A phe’
  4 Ea (Revs 6-26-73)

r  Federal Bureau  of Investigation

  Type2of Refer
  LC AMrcgu
  sive)

  [J Buildur
  vf wer

  Subjec
  Birthd

  ——“hig
  Address
  OPTIONAL FORM NO.  10  so10-108
  MAY 1962  EDITION
  GSA GEN.  REG.  NO.  27

  UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT  Assoc. Dir.
  Dep. AD Adm. —

  Memorandum  1 - Mr. W. R. Wannall  ee

  Comp.  Syst.  I

  ‘Mr. W. R. Wannallyi  DATE: 8/22/74  rice
  2 Ce
  Gen. Inv.

  aa

FROM
  :T, J. Smith >  ee
  Plana’ Evol.
SUBJECT:
  MILITARY INQUIRY REGARDING{UNIDENTIFIED
  OBJECT THAT FELL FROM S|  MILWAUKEE,  Leas  Con,
  WISCONSIN 8/21/74;  ;  ee:
  INFORMATION CONCERNING  .  acs

  At 12:07 a.m., 8/22/74, Security Patrol Clerk (SPC)
  Charles F. Halty, Intelligence Division received a call via
  Command Center telephone from a Major Horn, NMCC (National
  Military Command Center).  Major Horn asked for any informa-
  tion  the FBI  might  have  concerning  a  report  that  an unidentifie
  object which fell from the sky at Milwaukee, Wisconsin, had
  been recovered by local police and turned over to the Milwau
  Office  of  the  FBI.

  No information available at Intelligence Divisio;
  Night Duty Supervisor Harry E, Morris, Jr., called SPC
  Koller, Milwaukee Office, who advised an unidentified objec
  had been recovered by Milwaukee police at about 5:55 p.m.,
  8/21/74, but that it was still in possession of police.  He
  said a Captain Wills of  the Milwaukee Police Department had
  called  the  Milwaukee  FBI  Office  to report  the  recovery.  Very
  little was known about the object which was described as about
  13 x 8 x 5 inches, metallic in substance and color, jagged on
  |  one side and had an “internal heat source."  Police notified
  |  military locally.

  Above information was relayed to Major Horn with
  suggestion he might like to contact Captain Wills, Milwaukee
  Police  Department.
  ;
  This matter received United Press Internatio  ‘LA
  Coverage on morning of  8/22/74.  c

  ACTION:  REC- 101
  For information.  ‘s  Ze ey
  HEM; ldf
  (2)2  3
  \ Heel

  0 wse2810%
—-
~

=
o
=

ww

an
~

  jinjAl@ SONSDTTISING
  3¥  3A) 143y
  a4

  Lt  27 ong} hd ®  1-97  ony
  DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR onl
  WASHINGTON,  D.C.  20330

A

  Dear  Mr. Malmfeldt:

  This  office recently received  a public  inquiry regarding
  UFOs,  referred  to  us  from the  Buxeau.  As  the  inclosed  fact
  sheet  indicates,  the Ai  Project Blue Book"  investi-
  gation  ofUFOs was terminated on  cember  17,  1969,  and  all
  related  documentation was turned  o  to  the  National  Archives
  and  Records Service.

  The  inquirer  referred  to  us  has  been  apprised  of  these
  events.  Hopefully,  the  inclosed  fact  sheet  will  be  of  help
  in responding  to  any  future  inquiries  on this  subject.

  Sincerely,

  _
  ee
  H.  A.  McCLANAHAN,  Lt  Col,  USAF
  Chief,  Civil  Branch
  Community  Relations  Division
  Office  of  Information

  Attachment

  Federal Bureau of Investigation
  Attention:  Mr. Malmfeldt, Room  7825
  Washington,  D.  C.  20535

  REC-26
  ue
116  Mt
  LL u
  og¢  |
  Lgl Wd §S
  Mie
  py
  gn

  e
  SUROL BUYOO-Usda
  a.
  =

  ‘There  are a number of universities and professional
scientific  organizations such as the American Association  for
the Advancement of  Science,  which have  considered UFO
phenomena during periodic meetings  and seminars.  In addition,
a  list of  private organizations  interested in  aerial  phenomena
may be  found in Gale's Encyclopedia of Associations (Edition  8,
Vol I,  pp. 432-3).  Such timely review of the situation by
private  groups  insures  that  sound  evidence will  not be  overlooked by  the  scientific  community.

2  Atchs
1.  Sighting Summary
2.  UFO-related Materials
  r
  UFO  FACT  SHEET

  1969 the Secretary of the Air Force
  On December 17,
announced the termination of Project Blue Book, the Air Force
program for  the  investigation of  UFOs.

  The decision to discontinue UFO investigations was based
on an evaluation of a report prepared by the University of
Colorado entitled, "Scientific Study of Unidentified Flying
Objects;" a review of the University of Colorado's report by
the National Academy of Sciences; past UFO studies; and Air
Force experience investigating UFO reports during the past
two  decades.

  As a result of these investigations and studies, and
experience gained from investigating UFO reports since 1948,
the conclusions of Project Blue Book are:  (1) no UFO reported,
investigated, and evaluated by the Air Force has ever given
any indication of threat to our national security; (2) there
has been no evidence submitted to or discovered by the Air
Force that sightings categorized as "unidentified" represent
technological developments or principles beyond the range of
present day scientific knowledge; and (3) there has been no
evidence indicating that sightings categorized as "unidentified"
are  extraterrestrial vehicles.

  With the termination of Project Blue Book,  the Air Force
regulation establishing and controlling the program for investigating and analyzing UFOs was rescinded.  All documentation
regarding the  former Blue Book  investigation has  been permanently  transferred to  the Modern Military Branch,  National
Archives and Records Service,  8th and Pennsylvania Avenue,
Washington,  D.C. 20408,  and is available for public review
and  analysis.

  Attached  for your information is  the  Project Blue Book
sighting summary for the period 1947-1969.  Also included is
a  listing  of  UFO-related materials  currently  available.

  Since the termination of Project Blue Book, no evidence
has been presented to indicate that further investigation of
UFOs by the Air Force is warranted.  In view of  the  considerable Air  Force commitment of  resources  in  the  past,  and  the
extreme pressure on Air Force funds  at this  time,  there is
no  likelihood of  renewed Air Force involvement in this  area.

  7
  a
  BRCLOSUKe
  DOK -  £620 és  =
  é.
TOTAL UFO  SIGHTINGS, 1947  -  1969

  TOTAL SIGHTINGS  UNIDENTIFIED

  122  12
  156  7
  186  22
  210  27
  169  22
  1,501  303
  509  42
  487  46
  545  24
  670  14
  1,006  14
  627  10
  390  12
  557  14
  591  13
  474
  399
  562
  887
  1,112
  937
  375
  146

  12,618
  4

  ”

  UFO MATERIALS

Scientific Study of Unidentified Flying Objects.  Study
conducted by the Universi ty of Colorado under contract
F44620-76-C-0035.  Three volumes, 1,465 p. 68 plates.
Photoduplicated hard copies of the official report may
be ordered for $6 per volume, $18 the set of three,
as AD 680:975, AD 680:976, and AD 680:977, from the
National Technical Information Service, U.S. Department
of Commerce,  Springfield,  VA 22151.

Review of University of Colorado Report on Unidentified
Flying byects  Review of report by a panel Of the National
Academy of  Sciences...  National Academy of Sciences,
1969, 6p.  Photoduplicated hard copies may be ordered for
$3 as AD 688:541 from the National Technical Information
Service, U.S. Department of Commerce, Springfield, VA 2251.
  FEDERAL GovERInyy  January 24, 1977

  Lieutenant Colonel H. A.)\McClanahan, USAF
  ranch  roe
  Community Relations  Division
  ce of  Information

  Mr. Malmfeldt has brought your letter of Janu-

  ary’ 14th, with enclosure, to my attention.  I join him in

  thanking you for sending us a copy of your UFO Fact Sheet

  and for apprising us of the termination of your project.

  Sincerely yours,

  onald W, Moore, Jr.
  Assistant Director
  External Affairs Division

  DES De x2 BBE IL HEY
Assoc, Dir.
  Be JAN 27 1977
 Dep. AD Adm.
 Dep. AD Inv, __
Asst. Dir:
 Adm. Serv._
 Ext. Affairs
 Fin. & Pers,
 Gen, Inv, —_
 Ident.
 Inspection —_
 Intell,
 Laboratory
 Legal Coun, __
 Plan, & Evol,
 Rec. Mgnt. —_
 Spec. Inv.
 Training  "
Telephone Rm.  A  {
Director Sec’ at:  MAIL }  TELETYPE UNIT (_]
  ai,  “s  '  GPO; 1976 O - 207-526
  1 - Mr. Cochran

  FEDERAL GOVERNMENT  June 15, 1977

  57,  iat  fo  ba  ere

  Mr. Stanley Schneider
  Assistant to the Director
  Office of Science and Technology Policy
  Executive Office of the President
  Washington, D. C. 20500

  Dear Mr. Schneider:

  Pursuant to our conversation today, there is
  enclosed a copy of the FBI Law Enforcement Bulletin
  for the month of February, 1975.  Beginning on page
  16 there is an article covering the handling of UFO
  sightings which may be of interest to you in connection
  with your current inquiry.

  If there is any way we may be of additional
  service to you, please do not hesitate to let me
  know.

  Sincerely yours,

  JUN 15 1977
  JAssistant
  ay cook Director
  BEC /GFBI2.- rza“
  Technical Services Division

  Enclosure

  NOTE: Schneider originally called 6/14/77, see memo that date
  captioned White House Inquiry re UFO as to Bureau procedures
  for handling information received re UFO.  He was advised in
  absence of jurisdiction no inquiries are conducted and information
  furnished to U. S. Air Force.
  Plan. & Insp-———
  Adm, Serv.__—__  Legal Coun.
  eal
  Director.
  Rec. Mgnt__—__——_
  Span.  Inv. —_—__—
  Assoc, Dir.
  he
Public Affe, Off. 4)
Telshens Rasa  JU  Dep. AD Adm.  . Servs._—_—_—

Director's Sec'y —  MAIL R!  S/PELETYPE UNIT (1)  Dep. AD Inv.  Laboratory.  Training —_—————
  Public Affs. 55
  rae
  OPTIONAL FORM  NO.  10
  JULY  1973  EDITION
  GSA  FPMR  (41  CFR)  101-11.6  Assoc.  Dir,

  UNITED STATES GOV.  .MENT  Dep. AD  RA
  Dep. AD I

  ‘/ Memorandum  rate
  Asst. Dins

  MR.  MC  DERMOTT  DATE:  6/14/77

  Lege! Coun, —_

  ¢  eo  vi  Plans) fe lave =
FROM  :  J.  COCH  5  es

SUBJECT:  WHITE HOUSE INQUIRY RE
  _~UNIDENTIFIED  FLYING OBJECTS  (UFO)

  Stanley Schneider of  the Office of  Science  and
  Technology, White House, telephonically contacted me today to
  inquire as to the Bureau's procedure for handling information
  received from the public or otherwise, relating to sightings
 \  of UFOs.  He advised that Jody Powell of the President's staff
  \  has raised the question as to whether or not there is any
  coordination within the Executive Branch relating to information
  concerning  this  subject.  He  stated  that the U.S.  Air Force had
  closed their investigation of these matters several years ago
  and currently does nothing but refer such information to
  appropriate local authorities.

  ,  I  advised him that as  far as the FBI  is concerned
  there appears to be no conceivable jurisdiction for us to conduc t
  any inquiries upon receipt of information relating to a UFO
  sighting and, in the absence of some investigative jurisdiction
  based upon the information furnished, that information would be
  referred to the Department of the Air Force without any action
  being  taken  by  the  Bureau.

  He  thanked me  for  the  information and  stated  that  if
  any  further  contact was  necessary  he  would  call  back.

  ACTION:  ages" WS  bo  pss Y4%6
  None.  For  information.

  APPROVED:  Adm. Serv.  Legal Coun.__
  rim I  Plan  & Inspa
  Director  fa. & Pars,  a
  Dire  Maat.
  . AD Ad  Intall,.__  &
  1  -  Mr. Adams  Dep, AD Inv.  Laboratory_  Trai
  1  - Each Assistant Director  Public
  1  - Mr. Boynton

  Wc.
  (16)
  |
  ]  os

  Buy U.S. Savings Bonds Regularly
  on the Payroll Savings Plan
  Les  FBI/DOJ
  (2 10¢

  AYOLVYOSVT

  GSAi5034

  NOISIAIG

  FILSar jo  Ld30‘s'n

  “Ooayd 84  LLWd. te 4  9 mnIr
  LheWy &gy M0ggy Sey FALV
  i]
  2A11y IILSIA
  3/15 N
ee,  "Aiz9 04  Vd  une

  a Vig
  é

  Team  ip
