  ® aeere a
  CHECK*LIST = UNIDENTIFIED FLYING OBJECTS

  Date  1g February 1948  Incidont # 191
  le

  Time  53:01  P.M,

  be  Location  Noreatur, “ansas

  he  ame of observor  M, R, Srehbiel account (taken from newspaper)
  Occupation of obsorvor  Editor

  Address  of observor  Norton, Kansas

  Placo of observation  Norcatur, Kansas

  Nunbor of objoets  “ne

  Distance of objoct from obsorver  N/S

  Timo in sight  N/S

  Altitude  30 = 35 miles above earth

12.  Speod  N/S

i.  Direction of flight  N/S_

Ih.  Tactics  N/S

be  Sound One big explosion - “afterwards a lot of Little explosions"
16.  Sizo N/S

17.  Color  Bluish-white smoke smudge

18.  Sheapo  Mushroom

19.  Odor dotected  N/S

  Apparent construction  Meteor

21.  Exhaust trails weag)—Bluish-
  Woathor conditions  \/s

  Effoct on clouds N/S

  Sketches or photographs  Photo of vapor trail left in sky by explosion —

  Manner of disappearance Disintegration

  Romarks: Oscar Monnig, of the Texas Observers, Amateur Astronomy, 1010
  Morningside Drive, Ft. Worth, «ffers "tangible proof that the fireball
of February 18 over narthern Kansas was just that, inasmuch as meteorites
have been recovered from it." There were found, beginning April 2), first
several smaller fragments up to one of  1/2 pounds.  ‘hen a disturbed
spot in a clover field led to the digging up of a piece of some 109 pounds
embedded about two feet in the soil.  The stone is what is termed as an
“achondrite", a technical name for an unusual type of stony meteorite.
It is reported to be of a type which will deteriorate rapidly.

  4 photograph of the trail of the meteor, made by amateur photographer
Duane W. Wray of Norton, shows the vapor trail left in the sky by the
explosion of a meteor which was seen in Oklahoma, New “exico, Colorado,
Kansas, and “ebraska. It was made at Wray's home, nine miles north of
Norton, just four minutes after the meteor exploded.  A smuige of bluewhite smoke remained in the sky for an hour February 18th. This photograph is in file under Incident #101.

  Further remarks are contained in supplement.

  es
  us  eo  é  e
  A  EXHIBIT B

  Statement taken from Leland Sammons  4  ;  !
  My name is Leland Sammons, and I live on a farm 1) miles west of Stockton
  and 1 mile north, off US 2.  5

  On February 18 at about 5 P.M., I was standing near my hog=pen about 100'
  east of my house, when I heard the pheasants raising a disturbance and the
  chickens all rushed to the chicken-house.  I looked around toward the house
  to see what was causing it and saw something hovering just above the house.
  I ran towardthe house,  amd it then lowered over the north end of the house
  and settled toward the ground.  Iwas then very near it, approximately 6!
  when it stopped about level with my face, and just wobbled around for an
  instant, fire belching out of it and sucking back in.  The thing was about
  4" long, shaped something like a funnel.  There was a pipe sticking out the
  back of it, and once as it wobbled around, the pipe was sticking right at
  my belly.  Suddenly there was a lot of sparks showered from it, and the fire
  increased as if a fuse might have lighted, and it took off in a north-westerly
=  direction very fast,  gaining altitule as it went.  My wife heard it leave and
  ran out where I stood, and we watched it go, leaving a trail of smoke all the
  way.  Suddenly there was a great cloud of smoke in the sky, not more than
  40 seconds after it left my yard, and in a few seconds or more, we heard an
  explosion. I then stepped off from my house to where it had been, and it
  was five steps.  Yes, it was hot, I could feel the hear from it.  Had I not
  been washing my car prior to the occurrence, wetting the ground, there would
  have been a bare spot in the yard where the thing started up because there was
  a great rush of fire from it when it left.  It must have been quite high when
  it exploded.

  Kenneth “ays, son of Floyd Hays, 1 miles east of Norton on US 36, at the Jct.
  of K-60, south side of highways At about 5 to 5:30 P.M., not sure of time,
  was riding his horse in a pasture, when “he heard something queer in the sky.
  Looking up to the south-west, he saw what appeared to him to be a rocket,
  just like he had seen duting the war in Europe. It startled him, an
  jumped off the horse. He then remounted, watched its course, almost on
  a level but losing altitude a little, and it then exploded with a big cloud
  of smoke, apparently over Norton, from where he was, south of Prairie View.
  He rode on toward home a ways, when suddenly the sound and jar of the explosion
  reached him. Mrs, Hays was home in the house, when she heard and felt something
  like a truck might have struck the house. She ran out of the house and then
  first saw the huge cloud of smoke. About 0 minutes later, a part of the
  smoke clow dirfted directly over their house, and went on east over
  Phillipsburg.  eta Nat! gaan ees

  Ralph New, postmaster at Norcatur, stated that at about 44:50 P.M. he was
  standing just inside the front window of the postoffice in Norcatur, when
  he observed a blinding flash as if someone had taken a flashlight picture.
  He could locate no one with a camera, but noticed several men walking to the
  center of the street and looking up. He then walked out to where they were
  and looking up, saw a high cloud of smoke in the sky almost diredtly overhead
  {
«ate  (COPY)
  @  e
  323 W. Tenth St.,
  Pueblo,  Colorado
  February 20,  198

  Office of the Chief, of Staff
  .  U,  S. Arny
  Washington, D. C,
  .

  Subject:  Explosion in the sky near Norcatur, “ans.
  4300 pom. (MST) February  18, 198

  Purpose:  To call attention to some peculiarities
  in comection, whether coincidental a@ not

  According to an AP bulletin appearing in the Pueblo CHIEFTAIN
;  for February 18, 1948, some object was seen moving eastward
  across the sky on the late afternoon of February 1éth,  and
  when this thing reached a position approximate to Norecatuw,
  Kansas, exploded, or disrupted,  or disappeared.  The ex-
  plosion is said  to have been terrific.

  Directions given as to the progress of this appearance in-
  dicate that it moved from west to east.

  Information contained in the dispatch under a Denver dateline
  indicate that while many would call this object a bolide -
  €.g-, exploding meteor - the astronomers of Chamberlin
  Observatory (Denver) did not so assess it:  it is said in
  the dispatch that these officials could offer no explanation
  of it.

{  *  If this is the case, the apparance is anomalous,  and may lend
.  itself to other meteoric explanation.

  A sketch-diagram of the earth and moon's orbit reveals a pe-
  culiarity in connection with the appearance, which may be
  significant.

  If a line is stricken at right-angles across the meridional
  position of the site of explosion of this meteor at hour
  angle four o'clock (local time) and this line be considered
  the west-to-east course of the object, then it will be seen
  that if this lime is continued outward into space toward the
  orbit of the moon it will intersect the lunar orbit at a
  place near to where the moon would be at from 80 to one hundred
  hours after the explosion took place.

  _New moon occurred at 9 D 10 H 2 M February; First Quarter
  at 17D 8H M, February — the moon moves approximately
  . 12.5 degrees per day along its orbit.
  ol

  It is held by rocketry experts (example, WILLY LEY - see
  his ROCKETS, p. 192, diagram and note in connection there-
  with) that it would take about 100 hours for a rocket-craft
  to negotiate the distance from Earth to Moon.

  Prior to its explosion over Norcatur, this object of Feb.
  18th was variously reported 4s a "falling plane", a "jet
  plane", and a “ball of fire". It is said by some to have
  left a trail of smoke behind it.

  It is the suggestion of this writer that the Army collect
  and assimilate reports on this object, with a view to
  determining where it was seen as an object trailing smoke  .
  and where as a ball of fire.  *

  If this thing is a rocket of some kind headed for the moon,
  Te might first have been seen as a streak of smoke, then
  later as a ball of fire, and lastly as a tremendous ex-
  plosion when it at last reached sufficient speed and eleva~
  tion for take-off.

  The writer has‘in mind the various and mexplained reports
  on "flying saucers", and bases this speculation upon a
  long consideration of various oddments of reports whose
  significance might be of space-craft from other worlds of
  space.

  Tne so-called "meteoric procession" which crossed Toronto
  in February 1913, consisted of a number of groups of
  illimumated bodies traveling in groups of three and moving
  in "rigid formation", all pursuing a course across the
  same streak of the earth's surface.  +f a line is projected
y  backward along-this line of flight it will be seen that
  this line "comes out" at the position of the moon at the
  time,  The 1913 phenomenon occurred in the mid=period of
  a series of reports on dirigible aircraft of appearance
  like zeppelins which were seen over England and whose
  appearance terminated - or reports on the appearances
  stopped - just prior to the inferior conjunction of Venus
  of April 2h, 1913.

  The writer begs to call attention to the fact that the
  of Venus
  times prior to and just after inferior conjunctionthe
  are prolific in reports of strange things seen in  sky.

  Also tiat lights have been reported on the moon from time
  to time, back for at least a century.

  If in the future of military experime nt the moon is selected
  as a base for the launching of rock ets (which has been
  t
  suggested by some writers), it may be well to look firs
  101d

  March 14, 198

From:  j  Norman G, Markham
  F
  MAIN  HOTEL,  Pueblo,  Colo

To:  i  Chief Signal Officer
  B
  U.S.  army,  Washington,  D.C,

  Subject:  -  Norcatur, Kans., sky explosion
:
  ey

  of  18  February,
  19146
  ;

Purpose:  To show a speculation regard
  ing the above phenomenon and
  another one of earlier date
  and to call attention to
  occurrences  between  the  two
  which have an appearance of
  =  relationship whether  coinci-
  dental or not.
  The geographical position of the Norcatur explosion
  suggests possible
linkage with other occurrences happening inside latitud
  inal limits arbitrarily
demarkable between 13° 36' North (which is the
  latitude of Boise,  Idaho)
ee 36° 10! North (the latitule of Nashville, Tenn.), a belt about 485
  es wide,

  This suggestion is gained from positions given for occurrences
happening between June 2;, 1947 and February 18, 198, as
  sliall be
hereinafter briefly described.

THE BOISE (Idaho) OBJECT—This was seen either beginning or ending at 330 pm
2, June 1947 and was visible for 20 minutes. It was in the western sky,
was of comet-like appearance, and settled  gradually toward the horizon as
planetary bodies set.  It was seen by Lt.  Gov. Whitehead  and Chief Justice
Lampert.  Its nature was unknom.

The peculiarity which connects this posaats for speculative purposes, with
the explosion of some unknown object over  Noreatur, Kans., on 18 February
1948 is the seeming of a relationship between the positions of the moon for
  the two phenomena:

In the former case the moon was at the date of phenomenon, about 1h, 6
before the positionof First Quarter; on the second case it was about 84.73
beyond the position of first quarter.

Since the Boise object was visible for 20 minutes before it sank this
argues it was about ten degrees above the horizon when first seen.  Now
if a line be drawn westward and at ten degrees zenithward from the
  pola

horizon of Boise at 3:30 p.m. and another line be dram from the position
of the moon at one hundred hours before the sighting of the Boise object,
and projected to the center of the earth, it will be seen that this tendegrees-altitudé and the moon-earth line intersect as a place far above
a geographical position considerably to the west of Cape Blance, in the
neighborhoodof about 700 miles off the coast.

The Boise object in its appearance suggests a rocket-typeof craft possibly
using reaction blasts to brake itself dow for a landing on the earth.
The bright point and plumy tail of the description suggest  this, as also
its apparent fixity in space.

HOLLE'S "SHIP IN FLAMES" —— Nine days after the sighting of the Boise  object a forest lookout named Earl Holle saw at or soon after 1:00 p.m.,
3rd July, 197, something he took to be a "tanker in flames",  This was |
seen horizon=ward from a point in Sonoma County, California, near to Fort
Ross. A search was instituted by the Navy or Coast Guard, and nothing was
found. The soviet tanker ELBRUZ, which had been in the vicinity, was
 queried ami found to be allright. This was not explained.

If this apperance had been on the horizon, there is no telling how far
it may have been from the observer.

CAPE MENDOCINO BLIMP INCIDENT — Not far from the location of Holle's
"burning ship" an accident occurred to a navy blimp, 1, July 1947, off Cape
Mendocino.

This blimp suddenly settled into the water, slipped out its crew and rose
again.

The anomaly here is that one would not expect to find drastic dowm-drafts
of such violence as to thus upset a lighter than air craft. Possibly a
domdraft accounted for the accident - but if the Signal Officer will look
up the incident of the British steamer Talma which, at-the time of the
sighting of a luminous wheel-like phenomenon in the Gulf of Martaban,
reported a slowing of the engines from some unknown cause, it may be seen
that possibly forces are generated in some manner by certain uknom
objects at times in the ocean, which may have physical attraction for
material objects. ‘This blimp accident occurring in.waters where occurred
other phenomena shortly to be mentioned, seems to have a doubtful side
to it.

THE QAKIAND OBJECT — Early on the morning of 13th October, 1947, a  ~*
  J,
photographer named Ben Dobus togehter with a taxidriver named A. it."
Goldman saw a thing "that looked like Saturn with a ring around
It shot at terrific speed WESTWARD across the sky of the Bay area, and was
seen shortly after midnight.
‘This may have been heading in the general direction of what may have been
the goal of two later objects which roughly resemble it in description.

THE TICONDEROGA OBJECTS == According to the tanker Ticonderoga's
second officer, two "flying discs" were seen heading SOUTHWEST when the
ship was in 3 degrees fifteen minutes north and 12) degrees 5 minutes
west,  at 0620 GCT, 12th November 197.

These may have been heading for the object seen in the Pacific off the
Golden Gate, not long afterward - or possibly at the same time, if earlier
reports on this are consulted.  3

THE PHANTOM REEF — On November 2h, 197, the Navy denied that it had
found a phantom reef or other obstruction to navigation at a point about
400 miles west of San Francisco. The Navay Survey ship MAURY, sent out
there in response to reports of ships that some hugh object had been
seen in the water in that neighborhood, reported that when in the
approximate 1 titude and longitude of the supposed obstruction they
picked up an echo from something in the water 1600 yards from the
ship; but that when they had steamed to within 100 yards of this, the
echo vanished,

 There seems a possible connectability between the various elements so
 far considered.

Later on January 7, 1948, there were occurrences in the neighborhood of
Wilmington, 0., Ft. Knox, Ky., Franklin, Ky., and Nashville, Tenn., all of
which must be now familiar to the archivists of the Signal Office.

 Something like a "flying disc" was pursued by one Lt, Mantell ani two
 other pilots, “antel being killed while in the process of attempting to
 gain altitude to get close to whatever it was he was chasing.

Also, in this connection, it may not be amiss to mention the deaths of
 two military officers who were said to have been bringing back material
 evidence from "flying discs" one of which was said to have met with some kind
 of accident over Maury Island, Puget Sound, around June, 197.

 It will be seen on inspection that the geographical locales of these
 incidents fit inside the belt of latituies hereinbefore mentioned.

 THE NORCATUR EXPLOSION was described in a previous letter of this
 writer, and it was show in that letter that a line tangential to the
 meridian of Norcatur, Kans., at hour-angle 2:20 p.m., would if con-
 tinued outward into space to the orbit of the moon, intersect the
 moon's orbit at a point where the moon would have been at about 100
 hours after the time of the explosion.

 According to rocketry theory, it would take a reaction-propelled
 craft of the rocket type about 100 hours to reach the moon,

  <  i
I submit there is a likelihood that on June 2, 197, someth
  like
  inga
spaceship came here from the moon and upon February 18, 1948, returned
to the inoon.

This is of course speculation.

But has anyone yet explained the  "flying discs" in terms of all the
pretty-well proven facts in connection with them?

Has anyone yet devised a fuel powerful enough to kick a rocket from
Earth to the Moon?

There have been hundreds of reports, during the past century, on
occurrences which imply this world is visited from outside space.
Absence of contact by these postulatable visiting entities may imply a
state of culture far beyond ours, to the point where it would be inexpedient for their members to have to do with us en-masse,

These reports have never been seriously considered by science, which  i
in general ignores them.

However, according to Dr. Rocht of Chamberlin Observatory, Denver, there
is nothing in astronomy to explain the thing which exploded over Norcatur.
Dr. Nininger's idea that the ‘thing was a meteor flatly disregards Pr, Rocht's
opinion, which may have been based on the Denver Posts' statement that a
Denver woman saw the Norcatur object twenty minutes before the explosion
occurred,

I submit that the Army needs men who are capable of recognizing the anomalies
beforementioned when they occur, evenif only to aid in speculation regarding
them,

The undersigned offers his services to that end, if the Army may wish to
avail itself of them,

  /s/  N. G. MARKHAM
  eae  aca  *

Excerpt of letter dated April 11, 1948 from Dr, Lincoln baPaz, Director,
 Institute of Meteorities, University of New Mexico, Albuquerque, New
Mexico, to the Deputy Executive Director, Committee on Geophysical
Sciences, Research and Development Board:

  tank you for the surprising documents sent me under date of March
30, As you remark, certain aspects of Markham's letters are fantastic
(for example:  (1)  the fireball procession of 1913, February 9, was
genuinely meteoric, although a rare type of chain fall; (2) no astronomer
could take seriously Markham's “invasion by beings from Venus or the Moon"theory: (3) he appeals to, and biases in his favor, such untrustworthy
evidence as newspaper stories, e.g., the absurd statement attributed  to
Dr. Rocht of the Chamberlin Observatory).  Neverth eless, Markham is  justified in calling attention to certain incidents as unexplained, for e:  5
 the "flying lenses" (in my opinion 99% hoax and imagination and 1% teal);
  As regards the Norcatur, Kansas incident, I remain convinced that, h
 like the Four Corners incident, it was a genuine meteorite fall, althoug
  er,
  fall). Howev
 one of exceptional size (again like the Four Corners some of an objective
  these falls,
 there are many curious aspects of both spite of intensive searches (ad=
 nature, like the singular fact that inr condit ions) » not a trace of meteoritic
 mittedly under bad terrain and weathe a non-ob  jective nature, like the
 material has so far been found; some of  and other
 amazing testimony given b y Mr. Leland Sammons, Mr. Alfred Glenn, Highw ay
 witnesses of the Norcatur incident, both to membe  rs of the State
 Commission of Kansas and to Institu te of Meteo ritics field survey parties.
 (See exhibits A, °B, ami C enclosed.)  a

  Some comment on such testimony as appears in A,B, and C would seem
  /
 desirable:
  as red hot. When I pointed
  1. Glenn first reported the battery caseaccount was changed to
 out that the paper on it was not charred, hisoritics party found only two
 too hot to handle". ‘The Institute of Mete
  ry case fall. The battery case hasofbeen
 men, not four, who saw the batteDepar
 examined by Dr. Victor Regener,  tment of Physics, University
 New Mexico, who states that it appears to be identical with the small
 batteries used in portable radios.

  2. K. Hays' identification of the Norcatur objec  t as a rocket has
 the following support? On the  momi ng of Febru ary  19,  I talked to the
  at McCook Field, Nebraska.
 towerman and two assistants at the Air Base fireb
 All three denied the Norcatur object was a  all and described it as
  a black object with an extremely brigh t jet of flame pouring out  of the
  rear. Furthermore, a lj-ye ar old, and presumably unbia  sed, schoolgirl
  in Oberlin, Kansas wrote me a similar description  of the "Fireball."
  _

  (tte

  3. A determined effort is under way to check up on Sammons' veracity
  (and sanity!) I have neither seen nor talked to Sammons, but another member
  of the Institute of Meteoritics party (Dr. D. M. Gragg, an Instructor in the
  Department of Mathematics) who did so believes Sammons (who is a well-to-dO
  farmer) to be sincere and very badly scared.  Of course nearness to a big
  meteorite fall would scare one as badly as an atom bomb; but how could it
  produce such testimony as Sammons",

  The "meteoritic" incidents from the great fall of 1945, November 29
  (from which no meteorites have been récovered either!) through the sequence
  of similar falls culminating in the Four Corners and Norcatur incidents,
  coupled with such t+ ings as the Ussuri incident, convince me that ei ther
  the earth is under a most unusual cosmic bombardment or many of the
  the meteoritic
  fireballs are not meteorites at all. While I still cling toright
  hypothesis, it is clear that which ever alternative is the  one, the
eS)  situation cries aloud for thorough investigation.
  (cory)

  .  EXHIBITA
  Roy W. Cox, Director of Highways

  STATE HIGHWAY COMMISSI ON

  OF KANSAS

  _  Division  3

  Norton

  NOTES TAKEN AT NORCATUR, KANSAS, Night of Feb 18

  Mr. Ralph New, Postmaster at Norcatur, tells us that at approximately ):50 PM
  he was standing in the north window of the post office in Noreatur looking
  toward the City 4all when he was suidenly illuminated very brightly by some
4
  terrific light.

  He ran outside into the street where others were looking toward the northeast
  at a very large clowi of white smoke high in the sky. He stated that in about
  a minute and a half, there was a terrific explosion followed by a heavy
  rumbling noise like thunder and that the smoke cloud was growing larger all
  the time.  Also there was a white smoke trail in the sky from the southwest
  where the missile had come from.

  He said that from the ceriter of the street, the explosion ami the first big
  mushroom of smoke was directly overhead and at a tremendous height.

  Another man in Norcatur stated that just prior to the explosion, he had heard
  the motors of an airplane.

  Chief Scott learned: from some man in Norton that just following the explosion,
  something fell at his feet on the street amd he picked it up, to find that it
  was a small flashlight battery resembling those used in ‘fountain pen
  flashlights' and that it was red hot.  After a crowd of men gathered and
  examined it, he was unable to findit ami thinks that someone took it.

  Kenneth Hays of east of “orton was about 5 miles south of Prairie View when
  he heard something roaring in the sky to the west of him, far away and very
  high.  He says that it resembled a rocket traveling northeast toward Norton
  direction, and that suidenly there was a terrific explosion followed by a
  mushroom of white smoke andthat there followed other explosions or something
  resembling explosions. When he saw it, it was nearing the ground or horizon,
  in other words, losing altitude.

  Edgar Young's boy at Reager, was standing beside the Reager elevator and heard
  something high over head, looked up to see a very bright flash of light and
  then a lowi explosion followed by a big clowi of smoke.

  The airport at Norton thought about 20,000 feet, time 4:50.  Checked but no
  planes missing.  a
  7  aA:  j  HIE  a  7  jouer

  »  ©@  ee|
* but slightly  east, Suddenly, about 1 and'1/2 minutes after he had seen the»
 flash, there was a terrific explosion ani jar, shaking the ground and cansing
 the windows all around to rattle. Following the explosion, there were several
 low reverberating rumblings across the heavens,  He: stated that the explosion
 must have been very high.

 Edgar  a boy living at Regar, just east of Norcatur, was outside the
 elevator,  he observed the explosion, looked up and saw the huge cloud
 of smoke.  He stated that it was almost overhead but slightly west of him.
 He said that it was a big explosion.  The elevator man was out in the
 elevator, when he heard the explosion. He t ought that his oil-burner had
 exploded in the office and ran in to see about it. Finding it 0.K., he ran
 outside to see what had exploded, saw the big cloud of smoke high overhead,
 slightly west.

  ®

  Eastern Kansas newspaper carried a story about 6 days ago of one just
 like this one,  coming from the south to vicinity
  of Iola,  Kansas, where it
 turned west and disappeared into  the sky.

  Cheek with Chief Scott of Norton about a bummed flashlight battery
 which fell in the street of Norton just after the explosion.  It was too
 hot to be picked up for several minutes.  Chief Scott has it.

 Note:  A copy of Exhibit "C" referred to in letter from Dr, LaPaz, was
  not received.
  CHECK=LIST ~ UNIDENTIFIED FLYING OBJECTS

  l.  Date  18 Fetruary 19)8  Z  Incidont
  # 102
  2,  Time  1500 MST

  3»  Location  mumnairgxitamemn  Air Nea Green River, Utah

  i.  Mame of observor Lenord P, Marchese (3-29 Pilot, Lt, 28 Bomber Gp)~
  Carl W, Stueki, Lt., Co-Pilot,  (see reverse side
  5»  Occupation of obsorvor  Pilot  for other witnesses)

  6,  Address of observor 77th Bomb Sq, 28th Bomb Gp (VH), Weaver
  AFB, S.D.

  7»  Placo  of  obsorvetion  39°N  = 100°W  -  near Green River, Utah

  8,  Numbor  of objocts  One

  9.  Distance  of object  from obsorvor  100 miles

 10.  Timo  in sight N/S

ll.  Altitude 20,000  feet

12.  Speod  Very high

13.  Diroction of flight  Southeast of Limon, Colorado

lh.  Tactics Explosion rate

15.  Soumd  Could not be determined due to- B-29 engine noise

16.  Sizo  Huge  :  ¥

17-  Color Malti-solored ball of fire
18.  ShapoHuge svt eolered ball of fire ee dense cloud of smoke
19.  Odor dotectod  N/S

20.  Apparent construction  N/S

21,  Exhaust trails  Vapor trail with ball of fire at head of trail  ~
22,  Wosthor conditichs  Clear

23.  Effoet on clouds  N/S  .
2h,  Skotehos or photographs  None  “
25.  Manner of disappearance  N/S
26,  Romarks;  M@MAX Over

  Pau  Ge  ret
  A mge multi-colored
  ball of fire trailing
  a dense cloud
  of smoke
  was sighted
  at  1500  hours
  MST 18 Feb 4g,  B100° Wat
  approx 20,000 * by two  aircraft of the 28th  ament Group (VH).
  It was seen some 100 miles southeast of the B-29s,  Size was estimated
  as huge altho impossible to determine accurately due to the distance.
  It was traveling at very high speed and heading southeast of Limon,
  Colorads, at approx 20,000 ft,

  Witne  t Howard H, Berodt, #0-N950l,  Bomb
  seen!  “Bia Bomb Op (VE). Blot eit ees

  Bomb Gp (VH). CoPilet of ist ne
  t Maurice
  T. Ritenour, AO-1S043, 718th Bomb
  “
  1st Lt Leonard P. Marchese, A0~748714, 77th Bomb
  Sq., 28th Bomb Gp (WH).  Pilot of 2na B-29

  lst Lt. Cerl W. Stucki, AO-785916, 77th Bomb Sq,
  28th Bomb Gp (VH).  Co-Pilot of 2nd B29,

  NOTE:  See Incident 101 - Norcatur Kansas,

Sy
  CHECK-LIST - UNIDENTIFIED FLYING OBJECTS  Sista

  le  Date 18 February 19k8  Incidont# 103
  26  Time 1500 MST
  Be  Location Simaanemgodeagomumx ate near Green River Utah
  Nfame
  of  observors rsCapt.
  £ ob:  Cap  tus tee 2 -
  lacs H.
  Howard  Berod  ay. T. Ritenour
  t
  Capt Maurice

  De  Occupation of obsorvor Pilots

  6.  Address of observor 718th Bomb Sq, 28th Bomb Gp (VH) Weaver AFB, s.D.
  Te  Paes of observation 39°N -100°W - Near Green River, Utah
  8.  Numbor of pret Gne
  Ie  Distance of object from obsorver  100 miles

10.  Timo in sight  N/s

ll.  Altitude  20,000 feet

12.  Spood  Very high  i

13.  Direction of flight  Southeast (of Limon, Colorado)

1h.  Tactics  Explosion rate

  Sound. Could not be determined due to B-29 engine noise
16.  Sizo Huge (Seen 100 miles west of the B-29's)
17.  Color Multi-colored ball of fire”

18.  Shapo Hugh milti-colored ball of fire and dense cloud of smoke followed
19.  Odor dotectod  N/S

20.  Apparent construction  N/S

21.  Exhaust trails Vapor trail with a ball of fire at the head of trail
  Woathor conditions Clear

  Effoct on clouds  N/S

  Skotches or photographs  None

  Manner of disappoarance N/S

  Romarks:  Mame -  Same as incident 102 which see
  FRICTED
  NaS

  4

  CHECK=LIST - UNIDENTIFIED FLYING OBJECTS

  le  Date  7 Mer 4g  Incidont # 104
  2.  Time |  2055 6
  3e  Location  Smyrna, Tenn,

  Won Ricard Ov PettaneL,
  he
  tli A=y
  £  ob
  iPad Sat
  Fran
  Fenn,
  k Maj, USAF, 00, Suyr
  AFna
  Base
  .

  5e  Occupation of obsorvor 8  CO of Smyrna & radio and tower operators
  AACS Station
  be  Address  of obsorvor  Smyrna AAF, firmx Smyrna,  Tenn

  Te  Placo of observation  Smyrna AAF - 6 miles from  (ground)

  8.  Numbor of objocts1  ®

  De  Distance of objoct from obsorvor  6 miles

10.  Timo in sight  45 mimtes

Ne  Altitude  About 5° above horizon

12.  Speod  very slow

i.  Direction of flight  WNW  awey from Smyrna

lh.  Tactics N/S Faded away

15.  Sound  “Mone

16,  Sizo  Unknown

17.  Color  yellow-orange

18,  Shapo  oval .

19.  Odor dotectoad  8/8

20.  Apparent  construction  N/S = seemed to be flare

2h,  Exhaust trails  Mone

EB  Woathor conditions  CAVU - 10 miles

23.  Effoct on clouds  n/s
  Sketches  or  photographs  Figs (2) showing yellow orange fleme~like oval
25.  Manner of disappearance  faded into horizon

26.  Romarks :  (over)
  a

  ad

  é
  tam

  CHECK=LIST  - UNIDENTIFIED  FLYING OBJECTS

  le  Date  SMer hg  _  Incidont # 105

  2.  Time  1100

  3.  Location  Belmont, N. C,

  h.  Mame of observor  Mr. A, C. Morrieon

  5+  Occupation of  obsorvor  Supt. Meter Dept,  Duke Power Co.,  Charlotte,  N.  C,

  6.  Address of observor  Charlotte, N. C. (Duke Power Co.)

  7+  Placo of observation  ~ Belmont, NW. C.  (Sighted from ground)

  8.  Numbor of objocts  1

  9.  Distance of objoct from observer  4/s

 10.  Timo  in sight  about 10 seconis

 ll.  Altitude  N/S - could not be estimtea

 12.  Specd  Around 600 MPH”  cf

 15)  ecaation'os flight  Easterly
 1h.  Tactics  Wone = caung 4s aisitens ortdeecenmeet?” speed without

 15.  Sound  Wone

 16.  Sizo’  From a distance - that of a small coin

17.  Color  bright or silver - looked metallic

18.  Shapo  round or sphere (unable to determine which)

19.  Odor detected  B/S

20,  Apparent construction  Metallic

21.  Exhaust trails  None

22.  Woathor conditions Clear with scattered white clouds

236  Effoct on clouds  W/S
2h.  Skotches or photographs  None  ;
25.  Manner  of disappoaranco  behind small white cloud

26.  Romarks:  (over)
  speed of. 600 MPH was pron tieobject
  A round metallic-appesring
  etd Belmont, ar ne | at an estima
  moving
  1100
  ted
  the morning of & Mar 4g,  The weather was clear with excellent visibility
  with a few small scattered fleecy white clouds,
  It could not be
  determ
  if the
  ineobject
  d. we
  a disc
  re  or sphere,  Its a@ppargnt size was
  that of a small coin of a bright or silver color.  It reflected the sun
  maintaining
  a steady reflection whdid
  ich not flicker,  The object which
  was under observation for some 10 seconds was on an easter
  ly headin  g and
  moved in a straight line at a constant  speed without a@pparent change in
  altitude or direction, It was impossible to det
  ermthe altitud
  ine  e but
  it was mving above the clouds. No sound of eny kind
  was heard nor was
  any exhaust trail observed,

  NOTE:  Witness (Mr Morrison) is a man of excellent character and
  reputation,
  a first-grade engineer and employee of Duke Power Co for some 30
  yeers,  He impressed the agent as being conservative
  and sound
  and is a technical man with a very technical and
  Tesponsible position.

  Mr. Morrison was careful in his statements.  He does not claim
  he saw the "flying disc", mskig
  er  claiming
  ely  that they saw
  an object which they could not identify with any natural
  or known type of aircraft.  It resembled "a round metallic
  appearing object moving very repidly."

  Witnesses:  Mr, Hendrix, assistant Superintendent, Meter Dept
  Duke Power Co., Charlotte, N. C.
  Mr. G. W. Jordan, Gastonia Hlectric Co.,
  Gastonia, W. C,

sr
  (E68  ao A  FARR es
  a
  weed  COLLIS 89
  CHECK*LIST  = UNIDENTIFIED FLYING OBJECTS

  i.  Dato  5 March 19s  Incidont
  # 106

  Timo  1610 — 1655

  30  Location  Bakersfield,  California

  he  Namo  of observer George L.  Buchner

  5.  Occupation of obsorvor  N/S

  b&  Address  of  observor  Bakersfield,  California

  Te  Placo  of observetion  From ground, southwest toward Buena
  Vista Lake, Calif,

  8.  Numbor  of objocts  ‘Two

  oe  Distanco  of objoct  from obsorver  10  = 12  miles

 10.  Timo  in sight  N/S

te  Altitude  N/S

12,  Speod  w/S

.  Direction of flight  Earthward

1h.  Tactics  N/S
  |

15.  Sound  N/S

16.  Size  n/S  ‘  -  |

1.  Color  Seemingly on fire, black and red smoke trailing behind

18.  Shapo  Similar to falling aircraft

19.  Odor dotected  N/S

  Apparent construction  N/S

21.  Exhaust trails  Browish-white smoke and debris  trailing

22.  Woathor conditions  N/S
  gx  aN A
23.  Effoct on clouds  N/S  ys GS  §
  FRI  §

  Sketches or photographs  None

256  Manner of disappoarance  Behind a water tower, which was an obstruction
  to the view
26.
  Romarks: Comments of G. L, Buckner and other witnesses to this
  sighting contained in attached supp
  lement.
-» 4  $
  O22 RST ranean
  “  +t
  Cig
  WI
  GAS
  N ESI gop
  HEADQUARTERS FOURTH AIR FORCE
  Office of the Assistant Chief of Staff, A-2
  Intelligence
  Hamilton Field, California

  LAFDA~3/1208-1

  SUBJECT:  Investigation of Flying Disc.  Mar 11, 19h

  T0:  Chief of Staff
  United States Air Forces
  Washington, D, C,
  ATIN:  DIRECTORATE OF  INTELLIGENCE
  Air Intelligence Requirements Branch  »

  1.  ‘Incident reported on 9 March 1948, this headquarters, per telephone
  call from Sgt A. M. Marsen, Sheriff's office, Bakersfield, California,

  c/  a.  “bservation by Mr. (George L) Les Buchner, Bakersfield  California,
  /  ef two  objects  falling to earth from unknown source on  5 March 198  between
  1610 and 1655 hours.  Description of objects similar to falling aircraft
  with smoke  and debris  trailing.  Observation made at  Bakersfield with objects
  sighted southwest toward Buena’ Vista Lake, California,

  b.  Observation by Mr. Denio, employee of the Pacific General Elect,ic
  >  Company, Bakersfield, California, of two objects which fell to earth from
 (“1  unknown source north of Bakersfield, California, & March 1948,  One object
  seemed  to be  on fire with red and black smoke trailing behind.

  io  2.  Informant Larsen stated that searching parties, aircraft and rescue
  ~~“ units have made numerous attempts to locate these reported objects without
  success.

  36  Investigation of incident has been initiated by this headquarters.
  Report will follow.  x

  /s/ Donald L. Springer
  DONALD L. SPRINGER
  . lt. Colonel, USAF
  AC of S, AB

  Information to:
  ADC, Mitchel Fld, N.Y.
  FBI, San Francisco
  G-2, Sixth Army
  DIO, San Francisco (12th Nav.Dist)

  r= 4  mA
  > Cn Pron  ye
  =a  Ao  ae

re  Geto IN  BBP Lod  ia  7
  HEADQUARTERS FOURTH AIR FORCE
  Office of the Assistant Chief of Staff
  Intelligence
  Hamilton Field, California

  4AFDA-3/1208-1

  SUBJECT:  Investigation of Flying Discs

  SUMMARY OF INFORMATION:|
  Information from the Sheriff's  Office, Bakersfield, California, revealed
  that numerous calls  from residents in Bakersfield concerning peculiar objects
  in the sky over Bakersfield, predicated an investigation by their office and
  contact with A-2 Headquarters Fourth Air Force.

  ff  On 13th March 198, two informants, Mr. George L. Buchner, and Mr.
  H. B, Nix, stated that they observed a flying object which appeared to be
  consumed in fire, and left a bromish-white plume of smoke, which suddenly
  ?
  stopped and disappeared.  Seconds later, what appeared to be a mrachute,
  was seen to be drifting to the east.

  The object, as described, appeared to be a burning fabric airplane,
  consumed in smoke,  Observations were made in Bakersfield of object to
  the  south and southwest, approximately ten to twelve miles distance, around
  1600 hours on 5 March 1915.

  “*  On 13th March 1948, informant, Mr. H, B, Nix, stated that he observed
  an object at 0830, & March 19\8, due north of Bakersfield, approximately five
  K  miles distance.  ‘The object was a large, orange-red ball of fire, somewhat
  larger than a small airplane, appeared to remain static for approximately
|  thirty seconds, then split and continued to burn; each visible as a burning
  half.  A parachute, with a black object hanging was then observed to fall,
  \ drift to the east and disappeared into*the hills east of Bakersfield.

  ~ y,  On 13th March 1948, two informants, Mrs. Callie R. “ason, secretary,
  ‘/ Haberfelde Building, Bakersfield, California, and Dr. J, E, Johnson, dentist
  Haberfelde Building, Bakersfield, California, stated that they were in
  (\{  Room 518, Haberfelde Building, on the morning of 9 March 198,  lirs. Mason
  was a patient of Dr. Johnson. Hoth informants stated that they observed a
 i)  flaming object which appeared at first to be a very small airplane. Orange
aN  red flames seemed to envelope the cbject with considerable black smoke
  trailing in a zigzag manner for approximately 4,000 to 5,000 feet.  The
  \object was observed at 1,000 feet, approximtely due north of Bakersfield,
  seven to ten miles distant at approximtely 0830 hours.

  Informants further stated that the object disappeared behind a water
  tower, which was an obstruction to their view, and was near the ground.
  Both informants watched for an explosion, thinking that it would explode
  upon reaching the ground, but nothing musual was noted,

  Cone Gey Gal
  FAME aria na
  BPO
  Se
  CHECK-LIST - UNIDENTIFIED FLYING OBJECTS
  ie  Date 8 March 19h8  seetsore F207
  2.  Time N/S

  3s  Locetion  “Bakersfield, California

  he  hee of observer Mr. Denio
  5.  Occupation of obsorvor Pacific General Electric Company employee

  ba  Address of observor  N/S

  Te  Placo of observetion  Sighted from ground

  Numbor of objects Two  yj
  De  Distance of objoct from obsorver  N/S

10,  Timo in sight N/S

ll.  Altitude  N/S

12.  Speod  N/S

1.  Direction of flight  Earthward

1h.  Tactics  n/s

15.  Soumd  N/S

16.  Sizo  N/S

17.  Color ne object seemingly afire, red and black smoke trailing

18.  Shapo N/S  :
19.  Odor dotectod  N/S

20.  Apparent construction N/S

  Exhaust trails  N/S

  Woathor conditions N/S  3  om,  come

  Effoct on clouds  N/S  GX
  Sketches or photographs  None

256  Manner of disappoarance NYS Fell to earth

26.  Romarks:  See supplement to Incident #106.
  CHECK*LIST  - UNIDENTIFIED FLYING OBJECTS

  Dato  § March 19g  F  é  Incidont # log

  Time  0830

  Locetion  Bakersfield,  California

  Name  of observer  H,  B.  Nix

  Occupation of obsorvor  n/s-

  Address of observor  N/S

  Placo of observation  Sighted from ground

  Number of objocts  One

  Distance  of objoct  from obsorvoer  5 miles

  Timo  in sight  Approx.  30 seconds before splitting and burning

  Altitude  N/S

  Speed  Statice for approx 30 seconds, and then drifting

  Diroction of flight  eastward

lhe  Tactics N/S

15.  Sound  N/S

16.  Sizo  Larger than a small airplane

17.  Color  Orange-red ball of fire

18.  Shapo  Ball

19.  Odor dotectod  N/S

20.  Apparent construction  N/S

21.  Exhaust trails  N/S

22.  Woathor conditions  N/S

23.  Effoct on clouds  N/S

  Sketches  or photographs  None

25.  Manner of disappearance pecteabe= tothe east into the hills east of
  Bakers:
26.  Romarks: See supplement to Incident #106
  ¥
  ®
  CHECK=LIST  - UNIDENTIFIED FLYING OBJECTS

  le  Date  9 March 1948  Incidont_#
  109
  2.  Time  "0830

  3.  Location  Bakersfield,  California

  Name of observers  J,E,  Johnson and Mrs. Callie R. Mason

  De  Occupation of obsorvor  J,E, Johnson,  Dentist, Mrs. Mason,  Secretary

  be.  Address of observor  N/S

  Te  Placo  of observation 5th Floor of business building

  8.  Numbor  of objects  One

  Distance  of object  from obsorver  7 = 10 miles

10.  Timo  in sight  N/S

lig  Altitude  1000 feet

12.  Speed N/S

B.  Diroction of flight  Due north of Bakersfield

1h.  Tactics  Zig-zaging

15.  Sound N/S

16.  Sizo Appearance of a very small airplane
17.  Color  Orange-red flame

18.  Shapo  Appearance of a very small airplane

19.  Odor dotected  N/S

  Apparent construction  N/S

  Exhaust trails  Considerable black smoke trailing for 000 to 5000 feet

  Woathor conditions N/S
  Effoct on clouds x/s
  Sketches or photographs  None

  Manner of disappearance  N/S

  Romarks:  See supplement to Incident #106
  - RESTRICTER =
  ;

  a
  HEADQUARTERS  STRATEGIC AIR COMMAND *
i  Andrews  2
  sac 350 (29 Mar Ws)  29 March 1918

  i  SUBJECT:  Report of Unidentified Aerial Sounds,
  ?

  TO:  Chief of Staff
  United States Air Force
  Washington 25, D. Cc,
  Attention: -  ctor of Intelligence

  %  .-

  1.  the following is quoted from a copy of a letter,
  Baltimore
  ffice, FBI, addressed to the Director of Intellijence, Second Army:

  "On March 23, 1948, an individual, who desired that her
  identity be kept confidential, telephonically communicated
  with this
  office and indicated that she is the wife of a former
  member of the
  United States military forces, am that she is presently active in
  American Legion activities, but was emphatic in stating that she was
  in no way hysterical or unduly apprehaisive regarding present
  world
  conditions.  She did, however, wish to bring tothe attention of the
  proper authorities that during the past six or eight weeks, on a
  number of occasions between the hours of 3:00 and 5:00 A.M., she has
  ,  ,  vheard peculiar  sounding noises in the sky, which appear to come from
  airplanes in the distance, but the sound is not the type of airplane
  motor drone which isgenerally heard from American planes.  She has
  discussed the matter with her husband, and he believes that the sound
  \  is more like that of a foreign type airplane.  She recently discussed
re
  this matter with an unidentified woman who lives in her neighborhood,
  which is Hamilton, Baltimore, “aryland, ani this woman stated that she,
  too, had heard the noise in question, and that her husband is also an
  ex-G.I, and he has stated that the motors sounded like that of foreign
  planes,"
  2.  No action is contemplated by this headquarters.

  FOR THE COMMANDING GENERAL:

  c/e furnished CG,  ALAN MARCEAU
  AMC, Attn?  MCI,  CWO, USAF
  Asst adj Gen
:  RESTRICREQT  NE
Ube  ee.

  CHECK=LIST = UNIDENTIFIED FLYING OBJECTS

  1, Date 23 March 198  «|  18
  one
  2.  Time’ 0300 - 0500  ‘

  3+  Location  Baltimore (Hamilton) Maryland

  lh.  Namo of observor Identity confidential

  5.  Occupation of obsorvorActive in American “egion activities

  6,  Address of observer N/S

  7.  Placo of observation N/S

nay
  8.  Numbor of objects  Undetermined

 i  9. Distance of object from observer. N/S
  10,  Timo in sight  Not sighted

  ll.  Altitude  N/S

  12.  Speod  N/S  ‘

  13.  Direction of flight  N/S

  14.  Tactics  Nn/S

  15.  Sound  Motor drone of foreign type aircraft

  16,  Size  N/S

#7.  color N/3
  18.  Shapo  N/S

  19.  Odor dotectod  N/S

  20.  Apparent construction  N/S

  21.  Exhaust trails  N/S

  22,  Woathor conditions  N/S

  23.  Effoct on clouds  N/S  |

  2h.  Skotches or photographs  None

  25.  Manner of disappearance  N/S

  26.  Romarks:  See Supplement
  INCIDENT SUMMARY SHEET
  (To be filled out and retained in files)

Date of Observation  LMprah igus.  .  .  Incide
  # nt
  111

Observer's Position . Sighted ohject fram planes Phillipine Islands.  .
(i.e. ground, air, control tower, etc.)

Name and Address of Observer Je® Jit.» Robert W Meyers, G7th Fighter Sq. 1sth .

Attention Attracted to Object (s) By App@ating dn Mune of sight during flight

Number of Object(s) Sighted 2.

Size of Object(s) sag qpam
  30 feat, length
  20 feat. .

Color of Object(s) Silver,

Sisbs  Sketch if ak ao ba ine
  sporae  xteenbling a flying wing type.
Nature of Luminosity

Estimated Distance of Object from Observer . 3 miles.

Spoed
  oh Grject(s) £00 WB Aheyepeneyt in 5 pepepie faddating erent
Time in Sight . Approximately. @ seconds

tactics 90° Jegt tum, then level flight accelerating  rapidly. . .
Sound Made by Object(s) .

Direction of Flight of Object(s) aoe ae
Apparent Construction (Of What Material or Substance) « «

Weather Conditions Existing at the Tinoetoeres
Pebuliarities Noted Sbjegt, made a left. turn,. leveled out on & 270°. beading . -
  pate and disappeared from sight. . .
acpelerated

  a flight
pentonof Incident 9m Ist, AprAl, at, 0955. Ist. Lt Meyers. was. leading.
 4
of,  of the 67th Tighter. %., 18th Mehter Grom. Haws .
  Poly pireraft
. flying @ pending pf. 1802s, altitnde 1590, fect, position 124°5
  (Attach a Separate Sheet if Additional Space is Needed)
Meyers immediately started a left turn vi
ee more positively identify the
a  left turn,  the object mde a
a heading of 2. accelerated rapidly and ere pa
approxima te:  seconds,
  There was no sound heard, and no
were observed. St the time of the sigh’  visibility ws
scattered cumilous, base 3000 feet, tons  feet.

NOTE: Because of the distence from which the sighting was made, no
distinguishing festures, i.e. power units, landing gear, armanent or
cockpit were observed.

  The interview with Lt. Meyers indicated that he is a reliable nonexcitable individual who appeared quite positive in his statements. He wes
the only witness to this incid  as he could
  ent  not conta his wing men
  ct  i
Since his radio was out. Apparently the maneuvers performdby his three (3)
wing-men prevented their observation of the object.
  CHECK-LIST - UNIDENTIFIED FLYING OBJECTS

  Date  8 Apr 4g  Incidont # 2
  Q.  Time  1400 - 1430

  Be  Location  Ashley, Ohio

  he  Namo of observer  Miss Winifred Paines - Mrs. Bertha Slack

  De  Occupation of obsorvor  Méss Paines:  Asst Bank Cashier; Mrs, Slack:
  housekeeper
  oe.  Address of observor  227 W High St., Ashley, 0.

  Te  Placo of observation Ashley, Ohio (ground)  ii

  Numbor of objocts  1

  ~*~
ne
on  De  Distance of object from obsorvor  "Quite a distance"

  10.  Timo in sight  4N/S

  1,  Altitude  Could not estimate

  Tey.  Spood  slow-moving  bi
  Direction of flight  Southwest

  1h.  Tactics No maneuvers

  cide  Sound  N/S

  16.  Sizo  undetermined

  17s  Color  silver
  6
  Shapo  Oblong,  long and narrow - like silver streak

  Odor dotectod  y/s

  Apparent construction  n/s

  21.  Exhaust trails  None

  22.  Woathor conditions  Cleer, no clouds near object

  23.  Effoet on clouds  N/S = no clouds near object

  ah.  Skotches or photographs  None

  256  Mamer of disappoaranco y/s
  26.  Romarks:  (over)

  &
Witness thought she heerd plane which appesred to be flying low and making
an unusual amount of noise. Could not locete the plane but did see an
object oblong in shape end long and narrow which had the appeerence of a
silver streak, It was clearly outlined and moving slowly and steadily in a
southwesterly direction parallel to the ground and without changing direction.
Altitude end size were not estimated.

Note:  See Incident #112a in which the plane was perceived flying low.
  itive cU
  a  =  ti  Mi  OTS  Ses

  CHECK-LIST - UNIDENTIFIED FLYING OBJECTS  :

  de  Dato '$ April 1948)  "  Epeidont# lize
  2.  Time 1400 = 1430  ;  f
  ae  jocation Ashley, Shio

  he  Namo of observer Mrs, “elah Stephens

  Se  Occupation of obsorvor Newspaper reporter

  6.  Address of observer  226 West High Street, Ashley, Ohio
  Te  Placo  of obsorvetion  From the ground  .

  8.  Numbor of objocts  One

  Qe  Distance of object from observer  Not stated

10.  Timo in sight Approxtmely five minutes
ll.”  Altitude  Quite high

12.  Speod  Slow - dirfting

13.  Diroction of flight \Southwesterly

Lhe  Tactics  -None

15.  Sound  None

16.  Sizo Smaller than the airplane that was in view at the time

ATs  Color Opalescent - like mother of pearl

18.  Shapo Long cylindrical body, like a stick of firewood
19.  Odor dotectod.  None

20.  Apparont construction N/S

a  Exhaust trails  None

  Woathor conditions Clear, few clouis in sky but non around object

  Effoct  on clouds  N/S

  Sketches or photographs  None  t  athe  Besa

  Manner of disappearance  N/S  bs  ee  -4

  Romarks: A plane, which sounded as if it were flying low since there
  was an exceptionally loud roaring noise,first attracted the attention

  SD ta
of this witness.  She observeda large airplane, heading south, and about
the same time also observed a strange object in the sky travelling
  slowly
in a southwesterly direction, Witness first thought
  it was sky writing,
as it looked like a streak; but later it became
  clearly outlined, appearing
to be a long éylindric
  body like
  al a stick of firewood.  “ith the sun shining
on it, it . appeared opalescent, like mother of pearl. The  object was much
higher, and quite a bit smaller than, the airplane, but drifted
  slowly along
after the airplane disappeared,  It may have been drifting with the wind.

  je
  CHECK=LIST  = UN IDENTIFIED FLYING OBJECTS

  ‘le  Date  8 April los  Incidont #4205 |

  2.  Time  1430

  30  Location  Delaware,  Ohio

  he  Namo  of observor  Mrs,  James B. Stephenson

  De  Occupation of obsorvor  Housewife

  6.  Addross of observor 93 North Franklin Street, Delaware, Ohio

  Te  Placo  of observation  From the ground
  -

  8.  »Numbor  of  objocts  One

  Distance of objoct  from observer  wW/S

10,  Timo in sight  N/S

  Altitude  N/s

  Speod  Slow

  Diroction of flight  Southwesterly

  Tactics  None

  Soumd  None

  Sizo  Very large - about the size of a full moon in height but much
  smaller in width
17.  Color Very white

  Shapo Cylindrical, with vapor around the top”

  Odor dotectod  N/S  _

  Apparent construction  N/S

  Exhaust trails  None

  Woathor conditions  Clear, no clouds around object

  Effoct on clouds  N/S

  Sketches  or photographs  None

  *  (aap
  Manner of disappearance N/S  ;

  Romarks:  At 1430 Mrs. J. B, Stephenson's attention was attracted from
  her window by an object of unusual shape in the sky.  Upon going outsid

  2  eee
,  get  a better view it appfed
  very white,  with  fo  shadow@t all,
  in  shape  and  was  cylindrical
  seemed to have vapor arou
  nd the  top.  When first seen,
  be leaning at an angle,  it appeared to
  and then right itself and move
  gromd.  along "perpendicular" to the
  It appeared not to be moving at
  first,  but upon a closer look it was
  moving  slowly in  a southwesterly directio  seen
  n,  without  sound  or manueverings, and re-
  maining at the  same  altitwie.  The weather  was  clear, and no exhaust trails were
  seen.  The object seemed very large, abou
  t tke size of a full moon
  in height, but
  much smaller in width.  Since there was nothing to
  compare it with, she could
  be ‘sure of the size.  not
  No statement was made
  as to whether or not
  airplane,  witn ess heard an

  B32 a
  iCT@D
  CHECK=LIST - UNIDENTIFIED FLYING OBJECTS

  Date  8 April 1948
  Incidont # lee :

  Time  1430

  Location Delaware, Yhio

  v
  Namo of  observor  Rev.  “ames  B,  Stephenson

  Occupation of obsorvor  Pastor

  Address of observor  9% N, Franklin Street, Delaware, Ohio

  Placo  of obsorvetion From the ground

  Nunbor of objects  One

  Distanco of object from observer  N/S

10.  Timo in sightN/s

Lhe  Altitude n/s

124,  Spood  Slow

13.  Direction of flight  Southwesterly

1h.  Tactics  None

15.  Sound  None

16.  Sizo Not Stated

17.  Color  White

  Shapo Verticle, larger at the bottom and narrow at the top

  Odor dotectod  None

  Apparont construction  N/S

  Exhaust trails None

  Woathor conditions  Clear

  Effect on clouds  N/S

  Sketches or photographs  None

  Manner of disappearance  N/S

  Romarks:  Witness first thought that object was a plane on fire, as
  it was surrounded by a vaporous substance.  A-plane-was heard, and

  sv
it—seemed_low and made-a-greatdeal-of-noise.  After a few seconds' study
object became clearly outlined and looked similar to a vertical cylinder,
large at the bottom and narrow at the top, with streamers or streaks of
vapor attached.  +t gave the appearance of a white cloud, but did not behave
as acloud.  lt retained its shape and maintained a steady movement on a
straight course against the wind.  The Delaware airport was alerted for its
appearance, but after a half hour it had not been sighted there.
  Placo of observation
  From the ground:

  Nunbor of objects  One  %

  Distance of objoct from obs
  erver  —N/S_

 10,  Timo in sight  N/S

 ll.  Altitude N/S

 12,  Speed  N/S
  by

 i.  Diroction of flight  Southwesterly

1h.  Tactics  None

 1.  Sound  Weox  Could not be deter
  mined

16.  Sizo  N/S

17.  Color  White

18,  Shapo  Spherical "blob" with streaks above it

19.  Odor dotected  None

  Apparent  construction  N/S

al.  Exhaust trails  None

22.  Woathor conditions  Clear

23.  Effoct on clouds  N/s

  Sketches or photographs  None
254  Manner of disappearance  N/S

26.  Romarks:  Witness heard planes prior to the sighting, but
  doesn't
  mow whether or not they had
  any connection with the obje
  ct.
  RTs  TEER  PERS

  ti ED
  » ResTRiCT  __ CHECKLIST= UNIDENTIFIED FLYING OBJECTS
  t  1.  Date  8 April log .~’.  Incidont # lize

  2. Time 30
  3.  oi jag  Delaware, Unio

  h.  amo of observer Rev, John H. Bergen
  5  Occupation of obsorvor  Pastor

  6,  Address of observor  111 North Washington Street

  7»  Placo  of observation  From the ground  :

  8.  Numbor of objects  One

|  9.  Distance  of  objoct  from  obsorver  Not  determined

  10,  Timo in sight  ‘Ten minutes

  11,  Altitude  Several thousand feet  ‘
  12.  Speed  Not too fast

  13.  Direction of flight  Almost due west into the wind

  14.  Tactics None,

  15.  Soumd  None

  16.  Size  Not less than 5 feet in width

  17-  Color  Very white

  18.  Shapo Spherical, with a small protrusion above it, like vapor streaks

  19.  Odor detected  None

  20.  Apparent construction  N/S

  21.  Exhaust trails  None

  22.  Woather conditions  Clear

  23.  Effoct on clouds  N/S

  2h.  Sketches or photographs None  ~  oh  U  J
  25.  Manner of disappearance Disappeared from view behind the trees

  26.  Romarks:  This object appeared like a concentrated bit of cloud
  except it was  clearly outlined.  The size could not be determined,

  17
  ©  RESTRIGT
  CHECK=LIST - UNIDENTIFIED FLYING OBJECTS

  ie  Date & April 19hs  aes  i  # ll2¢
  Incidont

  2.  Time  1430

  36  Location  Delaware,  Ohio

  Namo of observer  Mrs,  H, S, Kirkpatrick

  De  Occupation of obsorvor  Housewife

  6.  Address  of observor  107 North Washington Street

  Placo  of observation  From the ground  i

  8.  Numbor of objocts  One

  Qe  Distance of object  from observer  W/S

 10.  Timo  in sight n/S

nl.  Altitude  n/s

12,  Speed Steady - not too fast

13.  Diroction of flight  Southwesterly

1h.  Tactics  None

15.  Soumd  None

16.  Sizo It was not large enough for a person to be inside

17.  Color  White - about the color of a fleecy cloud

18.  Shapo  §pherical - womewhat larger at top with a protruding end unierneat

19.  Odor dotected  None
  4

  Apparont construction  N/S

21.  Exhaust trails None

  Woathor conditions  Clear, blue sky, sunny

  Effoct on clouds N/S

  Ma: f disappearance N/S  ESTRICTED
  Sketches or photographs  None

  Remarks: Witness heard, but did’ not see airplane, and saw instead
  a white object, spherical in shape, larger at the top with a protruding
  Reais”  J  Mites
“RESTRICT
  ED.
  CHECK-LIST - UNIDENTIFIED FLYING OBJECTS

  he  Date 9 April 1948  Incidont # 35
  2.  Time  15hG_  /*

  Be  Location  Montgomery, Alabama

  he  Mame of obser'vor Robert B. Hughes, +t. Colonel, USAF

  5.  Occupation of obsorvér  Pilot

  6  Address of observer  Tactics Div., Air Tactical School, Tyndall AF Base

  Te  Placo of observetion  From the air

  8.  Numbor of objects  One

  a  Distance of object from observer  N/S

 10.  Timo  in sight  Five seconds

Bh  Altitude  Approximately 16000 feet

12.  Speod  In excess of the viewer's 310 mph air speed

13.  Diroction of flight  Northwest

the  Tactics  N/S

15.  Sound  None

  Sizo  Top part eight feet diameter
  Color  Silver

  Shapo  Had the appearance of a parachute carrying a large canister or
  ball
  Odor dotected  N/S

  Apparont construction  N/S

  Exhaust trails  None

  Woathor conditions  Clear, visibility and ceiling unlimited

  Effoct on cloudsN/S

  Skotehes or photographs  - Sketch (trip)
  Manner of disappoarance n/s  :
  Remeks t-Ggh oMaDgT* Be Mee he tome SE lenteomery, Alabama,
Hina
  tHe

;  i
  bi
  A sketch of the object is attached,
  Namo of observer | Lt Ayteh
  Occupatioofn observer lst Lt
  Address of aves Ft Worth,
  Placo of obsorvstion  Over city of

  Number of ahieeee:  1
ie

  Distance of object from obsorvor  a/s-
  10,  Timo in sight  few mimtes
  g  |
  ll.  Altitude  2000-3000 ft  |
  Speod 250-300 miles (traveled 500 feet in 1 or 2 seconds)  ?
  vB.  Direction of flight  Northeast towerd southwest
  :

  lhe  Tactics  Pecid arecajrom berizontal plane to vertical plane at vary

  15.  Sound  =e  »
  16.  Sizo  8" in diameter
cas
  17.  Color  silvery

  18.  Shapo  round and flat
  .

  19.  Odor dotectod ¥8
  Apparont construction  4/8

  ai.  Exhaust trails  mo trails of any kind  “3

  22.  Woathor conditions  Weather clear and visibility unrestricted
  23.  Effoet on clouds  4/8  :  )
  ah.  Skotehes  or photographs  Rone
  a

  25.  Manner  of disapposrance  ¥/S  a  Ms

  26.  Romarks:
yt

  plane
  vertical plane at a very rapid pace,  boston  about 250~
  MPH (traveled some 500 feet in 1 or 2 seconds
  heard nor were there any trails of any lind,
  sound could be

  NOTE:  This sighting may have been the reflection of sun from
  wings
  of these aircraft.  At the approximate time of the sighting
  a
  mumber of aircraft were flying in the local area
  ,

  am
  | me
Date  19 Apr 4g
Time  165  :
Location  Over Greenville AF Base, Greenville,S. C.

nace of observer 8 “ghylapety |Camry aad
Occupation of obsorver  Both attached to Liaison sa. Greenville

Address of obsorvor8 Greenville AP Base, Greenville. 0.
Placo of observation  Greenville AF Base <

Number of objocts  #  3-1 at first , 2 later
Distance of object  from observer  15,000 to 20,000 ft overhead

Timo in sight  2 mimtes

Altitude  15,000 to 2Q000 ft

Speod  Undetermined,  Stationary, then rapidly accelerating ani

Direction of flight —é
Tactics  gM a  com! acceleration and climbing
  trail formation
Sound  none audible (?) - states:  Witnesses were attracted by sound
  of fighter aircraft in vicinity.
Sizo  undetermined  (no mention made of these)

Color  white

Shapo  elliptical

Odor dotectoa’ W/S

Apparent construction  3/s

Exhaust trails  No exhemst or condensation trail

Woathor conditions  CAVU

Effoct on clouds  u/s

Sketches or photographs  4

Manner  of disappearance  in distance

Romarks:  (over)
“ih

  Witnesses were attracted by sound of fighter aircraft in vicinity.
  They started searching the sky for the aircraft and sighted the
  objects.  When first sighted, the witnesses thought theobjects micht
  be weather balloons, However, when they accelerated so rapidly in
  a northerly heading, they determined the objects could not be balloons.
  They were in a trail formation on a North-South line, and mved so
  rapidly they wereout of sight within a few seconds.  From original
  sighting in the stationary position to their disappearance, a period
  of ppproximately two (2) mimtes elapsed, of which the objects were
  in a stationary position for approximately one (1)mimte.

  NOTE:  Wind at 20,000 ft from 340° at 10 knots per hour (1230 EST Rpt)
  Wind at 20,000 ft 32° at 13 knots per hour at (1830 EST Rpt)

  NOT: Nearest weather station releasing balloons is Spartanburg, S. C.
  One black balloon
  was released
  at 1230 EST,

  ¢
  A  AMEINE SET

  —<

  O
In approximately 2 minutes objects had em
Objects began moving in a NNE direction’ and rapidly accelerating
and climbing.  S

When first seen objects were in a semi-stationary position,

First one object was sighted, next, another one appeared,
  N
  CHECK=LIST = UNIDENTIFIED FLYING OBJECTS

  le  Date  11 Mer 4g  Incidont # 116

  Be  Time  night
  i)

  de  Location Near shores of James Bay,

  he  Namo of observor  V. d. Pratt

  De  Oceupation of obsorvor  Employe of Hudson Bay Co.

  6  Address of observer  Moose Factory

  Te  Placo of observation  Moose Factory, Canaca

  8.  Numbor of objocts  1

  De  Distance  of objoct  from observer

10.  Timo in sight  N/S

iy  Altitude  4N/S

12.  Speod  meteoric

13.  Direction of flight  earthward

1h.  Tactics  n/s
15.  Sound  No noise

16.  Sizo  Size of fmtioumsn football

17.  Color 2665 Blue fleme
  Shapo  N/S

  Odor dotectoa  ¥/S

  Apparent  construction  meteor

  Exhaust trails oxmmgexkight N/S.

  Woathor conditions  Night

  Effect on clouds. N/S

  Sketches or photographs None

  Manner of Aaeaeeaie  exploded
  Romarks:  (over)
Fa)

  A big ball of blue flame, seemingly the size of a football streaked out
  of the sky and exploded neer this Northern Ontario community (Moose Factory)
  near the shores of James Bay,  The explosion lit up the entire area brighter
  than daylight, the whole ball disappeared and a second later a streak of
  orange light shot upward from where the ball was last seen.  The orange streak
  was gone within a second.  Witnesses heard no noise of any kind,

  NOTE:  Th&s ties up with earlier reports from Cochran, 150 miles south of
  Moose Jaw where several citizens reported seeing what they thought
  to be a meteor around 11.40 P. M. EST Thurs,

  One witness ( a Mrs. Charles Giles) said that the object plunged
  downward like-a spent rocket in the northern sky.  She described it
  as about the size of a full moon which gave the appearance of
  disintegration as it fell.

  ~
  le  Date  7 May 4g  :  Seo ee i)
 26  Time  1500 to 1700

 Be  Location  Memphis, Tenn,

  Name of observor  Miss Jem Bray, Housekeeper et atk al (see other side)

 De  Occupation of obsorvor  Housekeeper  :

 6.  Address of obseryor  253 W. Waldorf Ave., Memohis, Tenn.

  Placo of observation  Memphis, Tenn,

 8.  Numbor of objects  50 or 60

 De  Distance of object ‘from obsorver  WN/S

10.  Timo in sight  N/S

  Altitude  extremely high  ‘
  Speod  faster than any aircraft witnesses had ever seen

  Direction of flight  easterly .
  Tactics  Most traveled in straight line altho some of them
  zig-zagged.  ‘
  Soumd

  Size  Very small

  Color  shiny - like bright aluminum
  Shapo  unknown - possibly like meteor

  Odor dotectod  N/S

  Apparent construction  u/s
  Exhaust trails  Some objects seemed to have a silvery tail
  which might have been exhaust
  Woathor conditions  CAVU, wind: 330 to 340°, 15 MPH at surface increasing
  to 66 MPH at 20,000;  Surface temp: 72°; dew point 43° relative kmmidity 404
  Effoct on clouds y/S  :
  Skotehes or photographs  None

  Manner of disappoarance  n/s

  Romarks :  (over)  :  |
  Fifty tg60 shiny objects were seen moving at a speed faster than any
  known aircraft on en Easterly heading at an extrenely high altitude,
  For the most part these objects traveled in a straight line altho
  some of them zig-zegged slightly.  No sound was heard.  Some objects
  seemed to have a silvery tail which might have been exhaust.  These
  objects could not have been weather balloons as only one balloon was
  released by the Memphis Weather Buream that day,

  NOTE:  Witnesses thought they had seen a meteor; however subsequent
  investigation seemed to preclude this possibility.
  See Supp II to Trip Report to Memphis - Visit with Dr. Paul
  Herget of the Observatory of Cincinnati, Ohio, in which Dr.
  Herget expressed serious doubt that the 50 or more objects
  observed 7 May 48 in Memhis were meteors.  He, was, however
  unable to offer any explanation as to a possible identification
  of the objects.
r~
  Dr. Hynea
  of OSU and k
  Dr. Lincoln LePaz are to be consulted
  about the possibility of tnmis these being a meteor shower,

  Witness of this incident were:  Mr. F. J. Kaiser, salesman
  251 W. Weldorf Ave., Memchis

  Mrs F, J, Kaiser, housewife
  251 W. Waldorf Ave., Memchis,Tenn,
  CHECK-LIST - UNIDENTIFIED FLYING OBJECTS

  Date  28 Mar 4g
  Incidont
  # 118

  Tine  1630 hours

  Location  Berlin Lichtenrade, Kirchbachstrasse 2

  Name  of observor  Dr Ormans,

  Occupation of obsorvor  Former guided missile expert at Exeinmetall Borsi

  Address  of  observer  Berlin Lichtenrade,  Kirchbechstrasse 2

  Placo  of observation  As above

  Nunbor  of objects  1

  Distanco  of  objoct  from  obsorver  n/s

  Timo in sight  W/S

  Altitudo - 14 kilometers

  Speed  father fast

  Direction of flight  South to North

  Tactics  ~ ¥/S

  Sound  No sound reported

  Sizo  “white point"

  Color  White

  Shapo  u/s
  Odor dotectod 3/8
  Apparent  construction  W/S

  Exhaust trails  No exemst trail reported

  Woathor conditions  clear

  Effoct on clouds  3/S

ahe  Skotches or photographs  Mone

25.  Manner of disappoerance  n/s

26.  Romarks :  (over)  Pr Al @Pe mm ox
| ~sp

  Dr Ormens, former Guided Missile expert at Exeinmetall, Borsig mentioned
  that he Te  ee an ense fast, me chet
  height of 14  kilometers, speed undetermined, rather fast, no rpt of
  sound, and no report of exheust trail.

  WITNESSES:  Dr and Mrs. Ormans,
  No photographs available.
  Incident # 119
  wt  &
  come
  4
  bed

  Check list - Unidentifiea Flyi
  ng Objects
  1.  Date  20 Feb 4g

  Time  0700 hours

  Location  Asuncion, Paraguay

  Name of observer  Mrs “Agustina Vargas de Paula
  Occupation of observer  N/S

  Address of observer  resident of Asuncion (southern part of
  city)
  Place of observation  Asuncion

  Number of objects  1  .

  Distance of object from observer.  N/s

  Time “in sight  n/s

n.  Altitude  N/S

12.  Speed  N/S

13.  Direction of flight  west to east

14,  Tactics  N/S  :

15.  Sound  N/S

16.  Size  4N/S

17.  Color  4N/S

18.  Shape oval

19. ‘  Odor detected  N/S
  Apparent construction  N/S

al.  Exhaust trails  highly colored wake

22,  Weather conditions  N/S

23.  Effectoon clouds  N/S
ek.  Sketches or photographs  None

ee _Manner of disappearance  y/s

  (over)
At  roximately 0700 hours 20 Feb 4g witness saw object of oval  e
  wks
traveling thru space from west to east.  Its form  in a very
tail of approximately 3 feet in length. The forwerd part was ‘bulky compared with the rear, The interior portion of ‘the object gave off green,
yellow and orange colors and it had a highly colored wake.

Statesments were obtained from a local newspaper "La Tribuna" which has
interviewed several people claiming to have seen the saucers,
  e 2%  “ESTRiIowEr
  8 &»  5: ©
  CHECK-LIST - UNTDENTERTED FLYING (ee ea
  1.  Date  20 Feb lg  Incident  1l9a
  2.  Time  0700

  3.  Location  Aregua ie  10 miles east of Asuncion
  4,  Neme of observer  “withheld”

  5.  Occupation of observer  employee of Bank of Paraguay
  6.  Address of observer  Bank of Pereguay

  7.  Place of observation  in Aregua

  8.  Number of objects  1

  }.  Distence of object from observer  4N/S

 10.  Time in sight  N/S

 ll,  Altitude  4N/S

12.  Speed  WN/S

13.  Direction of flight  west to east

14.  Tactics  N/S

15.  Sound  n/s

16.  Size  n/s

AI.  Color  4N/S

“1g, Shape  oval
19.  Odor detected  N/S

20.  Apparent construction  N/S

21 _ Exheust trails  n/s

22.  Weather conditions  N/S

23.  Effect on clouds  N/S

24,  Sketches or photographs  None

25.  Manner of disappearance  N/S

26.  Remarks  (over)
  CHECK=LIST - UNIDENTIFIED FLYING OBJECTS

  le  Date  20 Feb 4g  Incidont # 119d

  2.  Time  0700

  3.  Location  Villa Hayes (10 miles NNE of Asun
  cion)

  Le  Home of observer iam Rancher and laborers
  5e  Occupation of obsorvor  Rancher.

  6.  Address of observor  inghe "Chaco"

  Te  Placo  of observetion  Ranch house in neighborhood of
  Villa Hayes

  8.  Numbor of objocts  1  5
  9e  Distance  of object  from observor  n/s

 10.  Timo in sight  N/S

  Altitude  1,000 ft

  Speod  less than that of a plane

  Direction of flight  west to east

  Tactics  4/S
  Sound  w/S

  Size  wW/S

17.  Color  w/S

  Shapo  ise  ;
  Odor dotectod  y/s

  Apparent  construction  N/S

  Exhaust trails  WN/S - gave off an intense green
  color

  Weather conditions  N/S

  Effoct on clouds  W/S

  Skotches  or photographs  None

  Manner of disappoarance  n/s

  Romarks:  (@ver)  2  FOP  E>
  "5

Perceived a disc giving off an intense green color. Witness reports of
  less than that
that the object traveled from west to east at a speedits
a plane and at an altitude  of approx 1000 ft. Along  edges it gave off
an aureola with the color green predominant.
MELMMEeea

  le  Date  B/S

  2.  Time  W&8/S

  3.  Location  Vejle, Denmark

  4.  Kame of observer  ¥/S

  5»  Occupation of observer
  field leborers  :

  6,  Address of observor  N/S

  7»  Placo  of observation  Gadbjerg (near Vejle)

  8.  Numbor of objects  1

  9-  Distance  of objoct  from observer  200 meters altitude
  Y

  10.  Timo in sight  8  3 seconds  :  |
  il.  Altitude  200 meters altitude
  |

  12.  Speed  high speed  ‘

  13.  Direction of flight  SB to NW

  1h.  Tactics  B/S

  15.  Sound  N/S

  16,..  Size  W/S

  17.  Color  shining

  18.  Shapo  W/S

  1g,  Odor dotected  y/s
  |
  20.  Apparent  construction  N/S

  21.  Exhaust trails  N/S

  22.  Woathor conditions  N{s

  23.  Effoct on clouds  N/S

  2k.  Sketches or photographs  None

  25.  Manner  of disappearance u/s

  26.  Romarks:  (Over)
Saree mem working in a ficld in Gad
 Observed a shining object
  bjerg (necr  VoJle) Denmark, have
  which moved ot bigh speed
southeast to northwest at sbout  over
- for three seconds.
  200  meters altituie.  It remained visible

  os

  >?
  eo.
  a

  CHECK*LIST  = UNIDENTIFIED  FLYING OBJECTS

  i.  Date  9 January 1948  .  Incidont # 121

  Time  2330

  Be  Location Cartersville, Georgia, 34° 10! N, 84°49" W

  he  Name  of observor Hugh DuBose

  Occupation of obsorvor  Pilot  (EAL)

  Address  of observer  N/S

  Placo  of  obsorvetion  Air  .

  Numbor  of objocts  One

  Distance  of object  from observer  N/S

  Timo  in sight  wW/s

  Altitude  3000 feet

  Speed  00 mph

  Diroction of flight  175° M

  Tactics  None

  Sound  N/s

  Sizo  n/s  \  |
17.  Color  Light, sky-blue

18.  Shapo  oa except for the top quarter which was flat, pot-
  shape
19.  Odor dotectod  N/S

  Apparent construction  N/S

2l.  Exhaust trails  None

  Woathor conditions  N/S  ;

  Effoct on clouds  “/9

  Skotches or photographs  None

  Manner of. disappoaranco  10° below the horizon

  Romarks:  When object crossed the path of the witness all that could
  was an intense blue flame, in a shape circular except for
  be observed

  c=  se
the top quarter which was flat, pot-shaped. The witness states that the
object definitely did not have the curved trajectory of a wingless missile.
Shartly after crossing his path, the blue flame sputtered and turned
inmediately earthward,  The flame then died altogether but nothing was
seen hitting the ground.  Witness states that the flame was not ¢ the
long trailing type, bub rather gave the impression that you were looking
dow a long exhaust stack at a short but concentrated mass of blue flame
and further stated that his connections with RAF pilots in Ingland during
the war leads him now to believe this object looked the same as the
"Buz Bombs" chased by  t ose RAF pilots at night. Arthur Porter, purser
on this flight 9 January 48, also saw the object, the flame only, but
can give no further evidence for its identification.  :

  Mr. DuBose stated on April 29 that seventy-five cattle had died of an
unknown disease on the farm of a “r. Gordy at Newman, Georgia, and expressed
concern over a possible connection between the unidentified object he
reported and this unusual fatality among healthy cattle. However, the
Atlanta Uffice of the Animal Industry Division, U.S, Department of Agriculture, advises that this "mlknow" disease has persisted for over a  .
year and other cases repeated elsewhere in the country for some time back.
There apparently remains no basis for connection between the object Mr,
DuBose reports and the death of seventy-five cattle at Newnan, Georgia.
  le

  2.  Time N/S

  3.  Location Holloma
  Air
  n Force Base  3

  he  Name of observer Mr. Olsen ~  ‘  :  ai :  ryteay
  Se  Oooupktion of obsorvor Trained talloon observer, Geophysics lab §
  6.  Address of observor N/S  ‘  i Sa
  Te  Placo of observation From the ground
  8.  Numbor of objects One  ;  |
  De  Distance of object from observer n/s  ‘  |
10.  Timo in sight  30 seconds

21,  Altitude  Very high

12.  Speed Faster than any known aireratt
iB.  Diroction of flight  N/S

he  Tactics Eratic — completing a large loop after its dowward descent,
  then soaring upward and disappearing suddenly
15.  Sound  None

16.  Size  Large  5  }

bly  Color  Grey-white
18.  Shapo  Rounded, indistinct form

19.  Odor dotectod  ~ N/S

20.  Apparent construction  N/S

2h  Exhaust trails  N/S

 22.  Weathor conditions  C.A.V.U.

 23.  Effoct on clouds  Nn/S

  Skotches or photographs  None

 254  Manner of disappoerance  Disappeared suddenly
  d by  -
  Romarks: This was evidently the one object, of two sightevagu ely  |
  another witness, that veered to the right and down. Its
 26.
  STROTED
defined form gave  the appearance ‘of a large object at a great distance.
The statements of other witnesses to this incide
  nt are contained in
reports 112a and 112b.
  -

All witnesses agreed that the object was very
  high, moved faster than
any known aircraft, possessed a ro  led, indistinct form,  and disappeared
suddenly rather than fading away in the  distance.  It was under observatii
1/2 minutes or slightly less.  +t was definitely not a balloon, and
apparently not manned,  judging from the violent maneuvers which
  were
performed at a high rate of  speed.

  +44
  Base at Kearns, Utch
  » Co., Alton

  “a Tunbor of offocte :
  |

  lget Se
  ehcoed of pbjoct from observer  N/S
  10,  Timo in sight  0/S
  :
 ll,  “Altitude  ¥/s-
 12.  Specea  4/8

 ‘13.  -Diroction of flight
  n/s
‘14.  Tactics  “flapped its wings"

 15.°  Souma  4/S

 16.  Size  "bigger than en airplane
  "
 17.  Color  W/S

 18.  Shapo  Resembled a luge fowl
  and not a type of aircra
  ft
19,  Odor dotectod >  n/Ss

20.  Apparent construction
  n/s  #5
21,  Exhaust trails  -N/S

22.  Woathor cond
  itions  /S

23.  Effoct on clouds  N/S  ;  i
2h.  Sketehes or photographs  None

25.  Manner of disappearance
  y/: 8
26.  Romarks:  Col Siegmnd said he
  12:30 A. M, U1  observed the creature
  dorlg, while rid
  ing four mile  s north o f£ Alt
  on, 111
  (over)
  See
  smisort of investigetion
  Air ‘ssiie at Kearns,  bets ate

  |
  Be  i  |

ies |
  ;

  |  @

  !  -

  i

  .

|

|  i  ‘a:  |
  3
  »*  4  |
  |  +  ees  1204  et  SEAS:  ORs  Cy  tg  a  POMS  a  2  vat  :  |
  ;  eel
  Een a  EF ERE
  CHECK-LIST  - UNIDENTIFIED FLYING OBJECTS  |

  le  Dato  18 April los  Incidont# 4p),
  2.  Time  1500 GCT  3

  3  Location  Nérth Atlantic, 62°00'N  33°00'W

  he  Name  of observer  N/S

  De  Occupation of obsorvor  Weather station patrol

  6.  Address  of  observor  First Coast  Guard District

  Te  Placo  of observation  Air

  8.  Numbor of objocts  Une

  oe  Distance  of objoct  from observer  6500 yards - 18000 yards

10.  Timo  in sight  N/S

i,  Altitude  N/S

124  Speed  30 mph

13.  Direction of flight  N/S

1h.  Tactics  N/S

15.  Sound N/S

16.  Sizo  N/S

17.  Color  n/S

18.  Shapo  N/S

19.  Odor dotectod  N/s

20.  Apparent construction Nn/s

2.  Exhaust trails  w/S

22.  Woathor conditions  C.A.V.U.

23.  Effoct on clouds N/S  8  me  iy

  Sketches or photographs  None

25.  Manner of disappearance  Target strength was S5 fading at 18,000 yards  |

26.  Romarks:  This incident is the result of a radar sighting.  Copy
  is also filed in radar sighting file.

  Mo me
  This  target was  contacted on the air search radar at 1500
  GCT on 1g
  April hs.
  The first contact was made at 6500 yards and was tracke
  d to 18,000 yards
  giving a velocity of  approximately 30 mepeh.  The area in which the
  target was  contacted was  thoroughly search visually and  there were no
  clowis nor weather fronts in said area.  ‘There were no target indications
  on the  surface radar.  -The target strength was S5 fadingat
  18,000 yards.

3
  oy  C23  ow oe  ne
  ®  ESTRIGTE
  US tem &9 b
  Ve U =
  D
  CHECKLIST  - UNIDENTIFIED  FLYING OBJECTS

  1,  Date 2 May 1948  :  Incidont # 125

  2.  Timo  Night —

  3.  Location  St. Souis, Missouri, 0°0'N 90°15'W

  4.  Name of observer  N/S  }

  5.  Occupation of obsorver  N/S  |

  6.  Address of observor N/S

  7»  Placo  of observation  Ground  >

  8.  Numbor of objocts  One  <  |

  9-  Distance  of object  from obsorver  N/S  |

 10,  Timo  in sight  N/S
  |

 ll.  Altitude  N/S

 12.  Speed  N/S

 U3.  Direction of flight  N/S

1h.  Tactics  N/S

15.  Sound  N/S

16.  Size  n/s

17.  Color  Phosphorescent after dark

18.  Shapo  Bird

19.  Odor dotectod  N/S

20.  Apparont construction  N/S

21.  Exhaust trails  N/S

22.  Woathor conditions  N/S

23.  Effoct on clouds N/S
  |

2h.  Sketches or photographs  None

25.  Manner of disappearance N/S
26.  Romarks:  Sec Incident #123
  i 4
  03

  a:

  a

  a>)
  )
  CHECK=LIST - UNIDENTIFIED FLYING OBJECTS

  le  Date  30 April 19h8  Incident # 126

  2.  Time  1015

  de  Location  Anacostia, Naval Air  Station, 38°52'N,  77°00:

  he  Name of observor Marcus L.Low
  e

  5e  Occupation of obsorvor  Lt Commander,  US Navy

  be  Address  of observor  WN/S

  Te  Placo  of observation  “jr

  8.  Numbor  of objocts  One

re
  Distance  of object  from observer  One mile

  10,  Timo in sight  N/s

  ll.  Altitude  1500 feet

  12.  Speed  100 mph.

  13.  Direction of flight
  360°N

  lhe  Tactics  N/S

  15.  Sound  N/S

  16.  Size  25-0 ft diameter

  17.  Color  Yellow  (light  colored)

  18.  Shapo Sphere

  Odor dotectod  N/S

  Apparent construction N/S

  Exhaust trails N/S

  Woathor conditions
  wN/S

  Effoct on clouds N/S

  Skotches or photographs  None
  u

  Manner of disappearance  N/S

  Romarks:  The object appeared to the pilot to be a yellow
  (or
  light colored) balloon, ani attracted attention principally becaus
  e

  520%
of its flight path.  No external fittings or’ attachments
  were observed
on the object.  The speed of the object was estimated
  at about 100 M.ePeohs
The flight of the object was in approximately
  a south to north direction,
despite upper winds from north northwest, and
  apparently followed a constant  altitwie.  Pilot did not pursue object further becau
  se it was
entering the prohibited flying area,
  U.S,  Capitol, White House Area.

  Sa
  CHECK=LIST = UNIDENTIFIED FLYING opseors
  le  Date  7 May isks  -  Incidont # 127.

  2.  Time  N/S

  3e  Location  Lake  Doiran,  along the Yugoslav-Greek frontier

  Namo of observor N/S

  De  Occupation of obsorvor  N/S

  6.  Address of observor N/S

  Te  Placo  of observation  Ground

  8.  Numbor of objocts  One

  9  Distance of object  from observer  N/S  cs

 10,  Timo in sight  N/S

ll.  Altitude  3000 feet

12.  Speod  N/S

13.  pissobidn of flight 160°
lhe  Tactics  N/S

15.  Sound like artillery shell (shrill whine)

16.  Size  WN/S

17.  Color  wN/S

18.  Shapo  Flying dise

19.  Odor dotectod  N/S

  Apparent  construction  N/S

2l.  Exhaust trails N/S

22.  Woathor conditions  N/S

  Effoct on clouds N/S  rad pe S Fé ¢46ei
  7

23.
  e

  Skotches or photographs
  Oy
  None  bo GY
256  Manner of disappearance  wN/S

26.  Romarks:  A press dispatch quoted residents of the Lake Doiran
  area along the Yugoslav-Greek frontier as Saying they saw a "flying
  Occupation of obsorvor Hew
  Address of obsorvor N/S

  Placo of observation  Ground  _
  Numbor of objocts N/S

  Distance of object pene observer’ Nfs
 10.  Timo in sight  WN/S  ae
1g  Altitudo  6 - § miles

Is  Spood  Great amount of speed

a.  Diroction of flight 90°
1h.  Tactics N/S

15.  Soumd N/S

165  Sizo 9M diameter from ground level
17.  Color  Fhosphorescent

18,  Shapo  Round

19.  Odor dotectod N/S

  Apparent construction  N/S

21.  Exhaust trails Phosphorescent trail in sky

22.  Woathor conditions  N/S  t  i  |

23.  Effoct on clouds N/S  &> && fi

  Sketches or photographs  None  .

256  Manner‘ of disappearance  N/S

26.  Romarks:  The  above covers sighting of same objects by Earl Roush,
  ~
  New York Central System Car Inspector; Bob White, New York Central
$7a
  ie
  ©  KESTRICTED
  CHECK-LIST - UNIDENTIFIED FLYING OBJECTS

Nad  le Dato 51 May 19hs  .  Incide# nt
  1290
  2,  Timo  1320

  3.  Wocation  Wilmington, North Carolin
  a, 34° 14! N, 77° 57' w

  4.  Name of observor  Mrs, H, D. Alspach

  5.  Occupation of obsorvor
  n/s

  6.  Address of obsorvor  709 South 6th

  Te  Placo of obsorvation Ground
  r
  8.  Numbor of objocts  One

  9  Distance  of object  from observer N/s

  10,  Timo  in sighty/s
  4
  ils : Altitude Awfully high
  12,  Speod  Fast

  13.  Diroction of flight  90°

  1h.  Tactics “fone.
  a
  15.  Soumd  n/s  i

  16.  Sizo As large as an arm, and about 3
  feet long
  17.  Color n/s  *

  18.  Shapo  long

  19.  Odor dotectod  N/s

  20.  Apparent  construction  wN/S

  21.  Exhaust trails  mmitted  smoke

  22.  Woathor conditions  n/s

  23.  Effoct on clouds  n/s

  2h.  Skotches or photographs  None

  25.  Manner of disappearance  n/s

  26.  Romarks:  Mysterious sky object  was sighted by Mrs. Alspach, her
  sister lirs,  Colvin, and Mrs, H,D.  Hufham,  It came at first at a fast

  iy 4
ae
  cHECK-LIST - UNIDENTIFIED FLYING OBJECTS
  1.  Date  17th May lols  3  Incidont #130

  2.  Time  Night

  3. Location Betvoa Plevna and Miles City, Montana
  l.  Name of observer  W, A. Bonneville

  5+  Occupation of obsorver  Territory Mgr., B.  F.  Goodrich Company

  6,  Address of observer 15 W. Rosser Ave., Bismark,.  N. D.

  7»  Placo  of observation  Ground,  Route #212,  West of Plevna,  traveling west  |

  8.  Numbor  of objocts  One  4

  9.  Distance  of object  from obsorver  At closest point,  approx. 2500 feet

  10,  Timo  in sight  Some twenty minutes

 ll,  Altitude n/S

 12,  Speed  Twice the speed of the Northwest Airlines planes

 13.  Direction of flight  West,  slightly south,  then west

 lh.  Tactics Performed are

 5%  Sound  None

 16,  Sizo  Fairly large compared with an aircraft

17+  Color  White - (might have had slight bluish-white tinge)

186.  Shapo  Ball

19.  Odor dotected  wN/S

20,  Apparent construction N/S = but apparently meteor-like

21,  Exhaust trails  A long bright light shooting from under it

22.  Weather conditions Mopnlight, but clouwly

23.  Effcct  on clouds  N/S

2.  Skotches or photographs  None — Map forwarded showing location of object

25.  Manner  of disappearance  Flew in a dark clow bank

26.  Romarks:  See Supplement
  0  coe
  OPER
  EY  be  &  Fs

  THE B. F. GOODRICH COMPANY
  Minneapolis 3, Minnesota

  415 West Rosser Ave
  Bismark, N. D.
  .  5-23-48  z

United States Army - Intelligence Div.
Washington, D. C.

Gentlemen:-

  On the night of May 17th at about 11:30 PM driving from Baker, Montana
to Miles City Montana on U.S, Highway #12 just West of Plevna, Montana before
getting to the hills I noticed a very bright object in the sky to the Northwest.  The sky was overcast in the West but to the South the moon could be
seen at times - with a broken sky.  Having traveled this same route for
many years - about 15, I am pretty well used to open prairie road at night
and can tell a star from an musual object when I see it.  |

  Northwest Airlines travel a Western route just North of this route  |
also, but I stopped at the Powder River Bridge where the road dips con-  |
siderably down from a high ridge - cut off my car motor and watched this  |
object as it sailed around in the sky - which at times close and others  |
seemed to speed away into the heavy clowl bank to the West and then later  ~~~
reappearing, at a very bright white light at what I would juige about not  |
more than several miles away or closer.  I carry a pair of field glasses  |
with me, and after stopping the car engine watched this thing through my
glasses, which seemed to appear as a small object with a long very bright  {
light shooting from the under part of it.  Because of the speed of the  |
object and the darimess it was very difficult to make out what it might  |
 be, but I am sure that if I had had a more powerful glass I might have  |
made it out.

  S
  I am perfectly sincere and do not drink so the foregoing is absolutely
the truth. With some of this newspaper funabout flying saucers etc, this
had all of the appearance of just that- and in stopping the car if this
had been an aeroplane I would certainly have been able to hear the motors.  ses

  I stopped at a service station just before getting to the Powder River
  i

Bridge but they hai all gone to bed so did not have anyone along with me  “
to witness the object as it flew through the air. It stayed around this  ‘t
area for about 20 minutes and then flew off through the heavy cloud bank  i
to the West.  |
  I am enclosing a map showing the location of the foregoing.

  Yours very truly,  '

  The B, F. Goodrich Company

  /s/ Vim. Bonneville
  Territory Manager
  @  The B. F. Goodrich Compan  13.0 &
  1653 Hennepin Avenue
  Minneapolis, Minnesota
  =
  '  og Se,  boa 7  >}  415 W. Rosser Avenue
  N  SF bE SED BE  Se
  betannd  une 18, 1:

Col W. R, Clingerman
U, S, army Air Forces
Wright Field
Dayton, Ohio

Refer - MCIAXO-3

Dear Sir:  -

In reply to your letter of Jume 15th in which there are several questions
which you desire answ red to the best of my ability - with reference to
the object which I saw flying through the air between Plevna ami Miles
City Montana on the night of May 17th,  1 will answer them and give you a
graphic description again with a little more elaboration than my previous  |
letter - if that is possible.

Question: - Did  the entire object appear to be glowing, or did it give
the effect of carrying lights.  Answer:  This thing seemed to be a ball of
bright white light - and I could not make out if it was being carriedor just  —
what made it go - however, it did disturb me quite a little because after
stopping to view it at the Powder River Bridge I could not hear motors  }
humming such as an aircraft in these parts might have, and 1 therefore tried
to find out just what it was by the use of my field glasses,

(b) Question: — An estimate of the size of the object in comparison with
some other known object.  Answer — the size of the light which was very
brilliant would indicate that it was fairly large compared with aircraft and I would say that this exceedingly bright light which was one light
and not several was as bright as the headlight on a locomotive,  only
about three times that bright and without direction. By this I mean that
this light simply glowed very bright and was not a-directed light.

(c) Que tion: = An estimate of the speed of the object in comparison with
the jet type or conventional aircraft. Answer: This object flew at about twice the speed of any aircraft that Northwest Airlines planes fly - because  _
it would appear coming thro where I was traveling west on Highway #212 or #12
as we call it out here appearing only faintly first and then growing larger  |
as it approached over the hills north of the highway - until it seemed to  |
hang there off in the northwest of me brightly and then would turn south
toward the highway tthere it became real bright and then would start back  |
West again and fly out of sight. This ting did this several times - which  |
actually got my goat - if I may put it that way. (d) Question:  Did the .
object appear to be circling at random or didit follow a definite flight
pattern.  Answer:  As ~ have explained before - the object appeared first when

  eZ.
  1yO"r

the West - then turning slightly South and
  turning in a big swing and
then heading West again - flying out of sight
  into the dark black
cloud bank out of sight - then reappearing, and it
  did this several times.
 (e) Question: = Is it possible that its disappearance into a
  "heavy clow
 bank" might have been caused by clouds obscuring
  reflected moonlight
from a hig ly polished surface.  Answer: - No - I have seen aircraft
many times  on moonlight nights  - but this was not anything like that this thing glowed brightly white light such as any real
  white brilliant
light might.  The moon was not bright enough to reflect polished light
unless the craft might have been South of me in the direct light
  of the
moon = which showed (the moon) from time to time through the clouwis.
  This
objedt was in theblack section of the sky over to the North of me
  and
slightly west, and was a steady oncoming light  growing brighter as it
came, and had the appearance of something carrying this light in
  the airbut without sound, and it certainly was close enough to me
  to have heard
motors,

I thought it might have been some kind of a jet aircraft that I perhaps had
never seen  — because we  as  civilians know very little as  to what might  be
ghing on in defense or experimental mechanics however
  + Pelt it my duty to
report the thing regardless as to what it might have been,
  This was
Somewhat difficult for.me to do because of the crackpot stories
the rounds in some sections about flying saucers etc., but
  for the life
of me this had all the ear marks of just that kind of a deal.

I have traveled this road about which I have releated this sighting many
many times and  at night Winter and Summer  - and have never before in my
life seen anything like this - so naturally I was somewhat alarmed
  about
it, and have steadfastly kept the whole thing to myself. I will certainly
be on the lookout for the damned thing the next trip I make
  through this
Same area which  is  generally after dark  - because most of the  time  I work
from Lemmon South Dakota or  Hettinger North Dakota along this highway to
Miles City which is about one days work  ith my Dealers.  -In times like
these I feel as before stated anything of this nature which we are not
familiar with we are duty bound to report to our Defense Forces who
  may
be better equipped to understand the unfamiliar than we are.

  Yours very truly,

  W.A. BONNEVILLE - Territory Mer
  for the B. “. Goodrich Company

  seu
  (f] Se  Probably true

  CHECK-LIST + UNIDENTIFIED FLYING OBJECTS

{  1.  Date  20 June 1948
}  4  2.  Time  2230
}  ~

|  3.  Location’  Belleville,  Illinois

|  4.  Name of observer  Lt Col Wa T, Hull

  5.  Occupation of observer  Pilot, Supervisor of Flying Trng
  Scott AF Bese
  }  6.  Address  of  observer  Scott  AF Base,  Belleville,  Illinois

  7.  Place of observation  (?)
  '  8.  Number of  objects  a
  }
  9.  Distance of object  from observer  N/s

  \  10.  Time  in sight  y/s

  ll,  Altitude  Undetermined but below 6,000 ft

  {  12.  Speed  Approx 500 MPH

  |  13,  Direction of flight  295° S of Base then 340° upon reaching
  |
  south end  of  Scott  AF Base
  14,  Tactics  Zigzag course

  15.  Sound  None

  16.  Size  Six or eight inches in diameter

  @  17.  Color  White light

  18.  Shape  4Aoprox round

  |  19.  Odor detected  n/s
  20,  Apparent construction  n/s
  |  21,  Exhaust  trails  None

  22.  Weather conditions  Complete overcast at 6,000 ft

  23.  Effect on clouds  N/s

  24,  Sketches or photographs

  /  .  264  Mauer’ of disappearance

  26.  Remarks  No aircraft flying in the vicinity
  of Scott AF Base at the time light
  27.  @ieppearance:  N/S  was sighted  e3
  » we STRICTED.....
i  .
f

  INCIDENT  132
  CHECK-LIST + eimai aia FLYING OBJECTS
  KK 4210  i

  Date  12 Dec 1947
  2.  Time  2205  & 2208

  3.  ) Location  Oslo, Norway  .

  4.  Name of observer  Daughter to MA Kai B, Rasmussen, Col GSC
  5.  Occupation of observer  N/s

  6,  Address of observer  Same as MA, Oslo, Norway

  1.  Place of observation  Oslo, Norway (Ground)

  Number of objects  1

  9.  Distance of object  from observer  1i/S

  10.  Time  in sight  “Between two end three seconds

  1h  Altitude  W/s  (4pparently traveling fairly close to
  ground or would be visible to more peonle)
  12.  Speed  Not quite as fast as a meteor

  13,  Direction of flight  SSE-SSW to NNW(?)

  14,  Tacticd  °.  Performed arc of circle,  curvature-very great

  15.  Sound  None

  16.  Size  N/ s  x
  AnvLicet,
  17,  Color  ‘  Tuminous finite with greenich-yellow tail
  18,  Shape  n/s

  19.  Odor detected  None

  20,  Apparent construction  Meteor-like”

  21.  Exhaust trails  Greenish-yellow trail

  22,  Weather conditions  No fog,  sky clear and ster-lit

  23,  Effect  on clouds  none  4  pri  ew
  f  Om  gen

  24,  Sketches  or  photographs  none
  FE
  «

  25.  Manner  of disappearance  Trees obscured vision

  26.  Remarks:  Office emloyee reports umsuel no.  of falling stars
  night of 13 Dec.
  Univ Observatory has
  no record of incide  a
  nt,
  yt EM
  CHECK-LIST « UNIDENTIFIED RLYING OBJECTS
  1.  Date  20 - 26 Fed 4g

  2.  Time  Usually around 2130 hours  |
  >  : 3. Location  n/s (Norway Denmark & Sweden)  ;
iam ck 4. Name of observer  y/s
  5.  Occupation of observer  n/s

  6.  Address of observer  n/s  ]

  7.  Place of observation  y/s

  .  8.  Number of  objects  n/s

  9,  Distance of object  from observer  N/s

  10.  Time  in sight  N/s

  ll.  Altitude  From tree-top level to 20,00
  0 £

  12.  Speed  one to  two miles per second

  13.  Direction of flight  Come from direction of Pernemunde

  14,  Tactics  n/s

  15.  Sound  n/s

  16.  Size  n/s

4  17.  Color  .  (green tail)

  18.  Shape  n/s

  19.  Odor detectea  N/S

  20.  Apparent construction  N/s (Eipeneaa}

  21,  Exhaust  trails  green

  22,  Weather conditions
  N/s

  23.  Effect  on clouds  N/S

  24,  Sketches  or  photographs  None

  25.  Manner  of  disappearance  n/s

  26.  Remarks  The trend of these objects

  cé
  to appear at2130 hours
  might be significants:,  sau.
  ee  %
  CHECK-LIST + UNIDENTIFIED FLYING OBJECTS

  Date  WOUGHCOUGS  25 May 1948

  Time  1500 hours (Eastern Daylight Saving Time)
Incident:  Location  Selfridge Fld, Mt. Clemens, Mich $s‘WacDill AF Base
  134  approx 6 miles east  of Monroe, Michigan
  Name of observer  Lt Kokolonis

  Occupation of observer  Ist Lt,  Corps  of Engineers

  Address of observer  Selfridge Field

  Place of  observation  6 miles  east  of Monroe,  Michigan

  Number of objects  5 - three at first - two later  |

  Distance of object  from observer  2 miles to left  (first 3)
  2-1/2 miles to left ( two)
  10.  Time in sight  10 to 15 seconds

  ll.  Altitude  8,000 +

  12.  Speed  over  500 MPH

  seven o'clock position to ae heading north.
  (2)  13.  Direction of flight  #$&xheading from MaaDill to Selfridge
see sketch  .  making abrupt turn to right (pilot's left))
  14,  Tactics  Maintained nose-up attitude. Made abrupt turns.

  15.  Sound  None

  16.  Size  300 to 00 ft approx. - size of lake freizhters(500 ft)
  17,  Color  silvery-gold color

  18,  Shape  disc

  19.  Odor detected  x/s
  20,  Apparent construction  WN/S

  21,  Exhaust trails  mone

  22.  eather conditions
  Weath  i
  rad Seercastrat a ‘act
  -  visibili
  10,  to 15
  w/chin stratus
  milgs

  23.  Effect on clouds  mn” very broken at 6,000

  24,  Sketches or photographs  Sketch showing approx positions

  25.  Manner  of disappearance  lost in he ge at 7 o'clock position to pilot

  26.  Remarks  Objects maintained smooth track thru sky, and flew
  in line of stern stepped up. In second sighting the  cond object
  flew about 50 feet higher than the first. All had hazy or fuzzy outline.
  salle
  CHECK-LIST  + UNIDENTIFIED  FLYING OBJECTS

  Date  28 May 1948

  Time  1500 hours (Eastern Daylight Saving Time)

  Location Engg ibe.idee
  +t
  Fid., Mt. Clemens, Mich r/AfacDill Fld
  Position:  6 miles due east of Monroe, Michigan
  Name  of observer  M/Set Ernest Davis, Jr,  (colored)

  Occupation of observer  M/Sgt

  Address of observer  Selfridge Field

  Place of observation  6 miles due east of Monroe, Michigan

  Number of  objects  3

  Distance of object  from observer  25 to 30 miles to mmx left

  10.  Time  in sight  30 seconds

  1l.  Altitude  approx 8,000 ft

 12.  Speed  4H OOH  Over 100 miles per hour

  13,  Direction of  flight  South West  from 35° at 8:00 o'clock position  ,

 14,  Tactics  Pursued straight course  }

 15.  Sound  wf

 16.  Size  Appeared to be four feet in diameter

 17,  Color  Shiny brass

 18,  Shape  round

 19.  Odor detectea  N/S  ;

20.  Apparent construction n/s
21,  Exhaust  trails  None

22,  Weather conditions  Clear, high overcast at 18,000 ft; thin stratus
  layer broken at 8,000 ft, lateral visibilitys
23.  Effect on clouds  xfO to  15 5 miles

24.  Sketches  or photographs  Sketch

25.  Manner of disappearance  N/S

26.  Remarks  Discrepancy as to position of 2nd object in group 2  |
  as sighted by Lt Kokolomis (Inc 13))  |
  Witness perceived only top-side of object.  Objects  |
  ; seen flying over ates oe ;  Sey.  1
  —

  CHECK-LIST + UNIDENTIFIED, FLYING OBJECTS

  Date  Between 15th & 20th Aug ¥  2
  Time  *"  2130 MsT  ¥

INCIDENT: 1353  Location  Rapid City AF Base, Weaver, S,D,

  Name of observer  Maj Elmer H. Hamer, #.  (AO-4601))

  Occupation of observer  Intel Officer
  Ae
  28th Bombardment Group (¥R)
  Address of observer  Rapid City AFBase
  Weaver, S, D,
  Place  of  observation  Weaver, S, D,

  Number of objects  12 (4pprox)
a/
  Distance of object  from observer  4 miles

  Time in sight  y/s

  Altitude  10,000 ft to anprox 6,000 ft.
  Speed  500 MPH +  1

  Direction of flignt  Approached Mapes =eh ot atae ioe  1
  Tactics  tight diamond-shaped formation  |

  Sound  no noise heard

  16.  Size  Length:  100+ ft estimte

  Color  Yellowish-white - brilliant

  18.  Shape  Elliptical

  19.  Odor detected  x/s

  20.° Apparent  construction  N/s

  ale  Exhaust trails  None

  22.  Weather  conditions  Clear, no clouds,  stars visible,  wind,  calm
  visibility 30+
  23.  Effect on clouds  none  maf  Ph) GED pry a aE cos g

  24,  Sketches  or  photographs  Sketches  oe  2 a

  25.  Manner  of  disappearance  Disappeared on a Si heading
  vee
  26.  Remarks  There appears  to be minor discrepancies as  to
  speed and altitude in the report given verba
  lly  6 y
  to Glasebrook and  ltr to this Hq £/jaj Hammer
  ry

At approximately ‘2140 hours,
  30  June, a ball of fire
  of orangescolor
with a streemer of bluish colo
  r trailing, traveled thru the
in a westerly direction and  sky  i
  disappeered over the horizon
west.  to the
  The object traveld at a very
  fast rate of speed.  No cound
was heard.  1

Witnesses:  Mrs,  Whitehouse,  wife of Maj Harvey J.
  3
  Whi tehouse,
  C.  0.,  ASU 3319 Pennesee
  ORC instructors,  Knoxville,  Tenn,
  Mr. Tryus W.  Setliff (See Incident 136a
  )  .
Mrs, Whitehouse stated the t the
3 minutes and that the streame
  object remained visible for
  r emitted sparks.
  approximately
Mr, Setliff stated that: the
  object was visible for abo
and traveled at en estim  ut 3 seconds ~
  ated  speed of 1,000 miles perh
altitude of about 30,000 feet  our at  an
  .
  @e  edi  iC@ED
  CHEC  K-LIST + UNIDENTIFIED FLYING opsdoes
  }

  Date  30 June 1948
1360
  Time  2140

  ‘Esbakion  S. Knoxville, Tenn
  Name of observer  Mr Tryus W. Setlirf

  Occupation of observer  w/s

  Address of observer  Oakridge,  Tennes

  Place  of observation  Knoxville, Tenn

  Number of  objects  1

  Distance of object  from observer  nf

  Time  in sight  3 seconds

  Altitude  —— XPSGUGRKISEXPSEXKSEK  30,000 ft
  Speed  1,000 MPH

  Direction of flight  Westerly

  Tactics  n/s

  15.  Sound  n/s

  16.  Size  n/s

 a
  17.  Color  Ovalige Color
  18,  Shape  Ball

  19.  Odor detected  wN/S

  20,  Apparent  construction  Fire

  21,  Exhaust  trails  Bluish Color

  22.  Weather conditions
  n/s

  23.  Effect  on clouds  y/s

  24,  Sketches  or  photographs  None

  25.  Manner  of  disappearance  Over horizon to West

  26.  Remarks

  GF
  INCIDENT SUMMARY SHEET
  (To be filled out and retained in files)

Date of Observation 7 Jwly-19W8. .  .  =  Incidert # 137

Time of Observation@¢M} amd 2125.  .

Where was Object(s) Sighted .@mpel BA21, North Carolina  -

Observer's Position Om ground at. Chapel, KO -  -  +--+  -  >
(ise. ground, air, control tower, etc.)

Name and Address of Observer University.
  of North Carolina.

Occupation and/or Hobbies .Mathemics. Instructor. ..  .

  Fee aie Wah sg e  Rt a  i  SV  am  am

Mimbars of (Ob ject(s) Sighted ..iT<. wc ca  eis  «0 0  whee  see

Size of Object(s) .3.1/29 4n-length viewsd-perspectively+ about size-of a/e

Goer ‘ot Ob Joati(e)  yes 9 e Saco" Bg  Saheb  fone  woe  eee  me

Shape (Sketch if Possible) Bim fromb tapering.to @ point in-the-rear - -
  shaped likea cigar,
Nature of Luminosity 2°06  6  0  wie  ee  eee  ww  6  ee  ee  ew  eae

Estimated Distance of Object from Observer Fam... .. +s

Speed of Object(s) ge Speed. . 2.2 eee  ee  eee

Time in Sight .Agpyoximately.l.mimte..........

Tactics DAG not puysue
  « general course, ‘but moved ‘general
  ‘lic irth
  ly

Sound Made by Object(s)  «22  see eee  ee  eee  eee  ee

Direction of Flight of Object(s) Mast.Morthimst. .....-++5-+--

Apparent Construction (Of ¥  Material or Substance) . «esses

Effect of Objects on Clouds and/or Exhaust Trail Met.wisiblle. ...

Weather Conditions Existing at the Time . Gleam .

Peculiarities Noted  .  2.  ees  eee  ee  ee  ees

Summary of Incident Gajots. seered to -leve
  int in the reer shaped  2
  likecigar. .
;  mie "in the sky.  vere about 3=
+ any wings or-any apparent was -of @ ting arounl ‘in
  (Attach a Separate Sheet if Additional S,
  CHECK*LIST = UNIDENTIFIED FLYING OBJECTS

  i.  Dato 7 dul 4g  Incidont
  # 1378

  26  Time  2114 and 2115

  3.  Location Chapel Hill, N. C.

  Name of observor H. W. Daniels

  De  Occupation of obsorvor  Capt.,  Infantry, Reserve

  be  Address  of observor  Box 188,  Chapel Hill

  Te  Placo  of observetion  Chapel Hill,  N. C.

  8.  Numbor  of objocts  three (3)

  oe  Distanco of object from obsorvor  n/s

10.  Timo in sight  Approximately one (1) mimte

po  Altitudo Extreme

2,  Speod  High

13.  Diroction of flight  Hast Northeast

1h.  Tactics N/S

15.  Souna Jet

16.  Size  n/s

17.  Color  y/S

18.  Shapo  n/s

19.  Odor dotectod  n/s

20.  Apparent construction y/s

21.  Exhaust trails  Not Visible

22.  Woathor conditions  Clear

  Effoct on clouds  y/s

  Skotches or photographs None
  Manner of disappearance n/s

  Romarks :
  INCIDENT SUMMARY SHEET
  (To be filled out and retained in files)

Date of Observation 8, day 1948, Powis:  Indi dent #138
Time of Observation  0920 brs.  ....

Where was“ie iteSighted .\@ulwmbms @fe.  28.  8  tee

Observer's Position .@powmd, Columbus, Ohio
(i.e. ground, air, control tower, etc.)

  ess of Observ  ET  ee an  a

Occupation and/or Hobbies  ~ MMMM.  ci  ge  ww  te  tt  te  eke

Abtarbton khitdcted to Object be) Bias  is  eo  ale ees  &  ae  eA

Naliber ‘of Ob jeet (a) Stpnted)  Ggke a  6.  wie) Reais:  oe!  3  ore @ wines ie  aye,  pecs

Size of Object(s) .Mi bingeulers (Type M3, .6.x.30).chout.3.1/2" in. length .

Colter oF Gbse cts)  MINE sb 25 elas neoral  bs dey ain  whe tothe  oe tenor

Shape (Sketch if Possible) dm @ Giger @ forpedo. . .

Nature of Luminosity  «2  1s  esc  ee  ee  we  oo  we  wee  oe

Estimated Distance of Object from Observer ¢ Mltitade.wes.about.3000!.

Speed of: Objects) Geass ee sie eee  alee es

Tactics BqWpeG wand. dom...  wk  ee

Sound Wade by Object(s) BOMB. 2  wee  we tt ew

Direction of Flight-of Object(s)  Jiret heeded Horth Dast.then Morth .

Apparent Construction (Of What Material or Substance) . Mewlde. ...

Effect of Objects on Clouds and/or Exhaust Trail . ote.
Weather Conditions Existing at the Time < eeniaans un Glowis....
Peculiarities pre ~ Mes

Summary o.

butpoor for ai  ani altitads. pattern Field state’ 2, F-80's were in
—— pout sger cmd a dentine---Sheet cepekt pa nal Space is Needed)
  Incident # 138 cont'd

  Capt Darnell, pilot of one P=80 was flying a loose formation in trail
of Lt. Collins while pacing him in a calibrated speed check, ‘the aircragt

were not equipped with wing tanks (Tip). The pilots stated that they were

in the Colusbus Area, Mre Zittek's position ws from a three quarter position at sighting.

  4n article was published by the Columbus News Paper, Columbus,

Ohio, § July 1948,

  242603 Incident # 138
  Ge  eo
Information received from Captain Boyd,  District  Intelligence  Office,
320 Old Post Office, Columbus, Ohio

Unconventional  aircraft sighted  by Mrs.  Wilda Zittek,  2579 Avalon Ave.,  Columbus

at  0920 on  8  July.  Weather was  clear, sun  shining brightly,  no  clouds near the

object.  She  first  saw  the object with her naked eye,  then  spent  two  minutes

looking  for  binoculars,  Observed  the  object  for about  two  minutes with  them.

There were  two  flying objects;  both appeared to have  a blunt  front and  seemed

to  taper  to  a  point  at  the  rear,  The  shape  was  very  much  like  a  cigar.  The

sun was  shining on  them and  they appeared  to  be  silver  in  color.  With the

naked eye,  they appeared to  be about  the  size  of airplane when writing in  the

sky.  They were about 32" in length and 1" in diameter.  In other words, they

seemed to  be a  little more  than three times  the  diameter  in  length.  Speed

was  not  estimated.  Observed  for  approximately four  minutes.  When  first  seen,

they were  headed  northeast.:|  Seemed  to  bob  up and  down  rather  than pursuing

a  set  and  steady course.  Altitude  was  judged  to  be  approximately 3000  ft.

No  sound  audible  from  the  object;  no  exhaust  treil visible.  First  seen  in

east  going toward Fort Columbus,  then moved  generally north  from there.

Binoculars were M3  £X  %

The  following was  broadcast  over  radio  this  morning  (9  Jul)  but  persorwnot yet

interviewed:  On  7  July,  five  members  of  one  family  saw the  objects which  looked

like  pie  pans,  directly over Port Columbus.
  Interrogation  ~~  me

  MCI AXO-3  wetaxo-4  12 duly 46
  1.  Contacted Captain Dwight I. Boyd, District Intelligence Officer, 109 CIC
  Detachment, Old Post Office Building, Columbus, Ohio, at 0900, 10 July 1948. Read the
  agents’ report and proceede  with
  d the agent to the home of Mrs. Paul Vittek, 2579
  Avelon Avenne, Columbus, Ohio

  2.  Interviewed Mrs. Vittek and received the same information as contained in the
  agents' report (WD AGO Form 341) except that the bobbing movement described there was
  brought out to be a emoothiguntindatiriey movement “like something going through air
  currents".

 2 3.  The eubject stated that the object wes cigar shaped, with a blunt nose and the
  t@il obecured.  "I couldn't make it out plain:  It was like a dark blot”.  The main
  thing that had attracted her attention was the sunlight reflected from the shiny center
  of the object, both ends being indistinct.

  4,  The subdjects' powers of observation were checked on aircraft flying in the
 area and were found to be good as far as direction and movement were concerned, but
  for distance
  and altitude.  The binoculars were checked and found to be Type M-3,
  x 30, with artillery mil scales imposed. No blemishes or defects in the optics were
  found. The subject had no acurate idea as to the amount of the mil scale the object
  occupied.

  5.  Acheck at Patterson Field Operations showed two F-80's in the air at the time  »
 of the sighting. Contacted Captain Darnell, MCRFOF, the pilot of one of the F-S0's who
  stated that he was in the Columbus area at the time of sighting.  He was flying
  a loose
 formation in trail cf Lt. Collins while pacing him on a calibrated speed check.  The
~o were not equipped with wing tip tanks.

  6.  In view of the fact that Mrs. Vittek’s sight of the objects was from a three
 quarter rear position it is highly possible they were the two F-80's in the Columbus area  -
 as this position from a distance lends itself to a distortion comparable to what she saw,
 i.e. blunt nose, obscure tail, and apparent lack of wings.

  7.  #<Acheck was made with the Intelligence Officer at the Port Colusbus Nava)
 Air Station with negative results.  a Ae

  ov

  /  © “ GLARESCE
  R. GLASESROOK
  ist Lt., USaF
  ATI Branch, Operations Section
  Technical Intelligence Div
  iOTES
  CHECKLIST = UNIDENTIFIED FLYING OBJECTS

  1. Dato 9 Jul 4g  ;  Incidont  139
  2.  Time  2147  :

  3.  Location  North end ‘of Osborn,  Ohio

  .  Namo of observer  Clarence Glasebrook, 1st Lt., USAT, Hq AMC (MCLAXO44)

  5. Occupation of obsorvor ATI Investigator
  6,  Address of obsorvor Hq AMC (MCIAXO-4)

  7e  Placo  of observation  ground

 \  8.  Numbor  of  objects  one

  Je  Distance of objoct  from obsorvor)  N/S

  10,  Timo in sight  Appeared 3 times each time being 1-2 second duration

  ll.  Altitude  3000 to 4000 feet

  12.  Speed  between 500 & 600

  13.  Direction of flight  west (east to west)

  1h.  Tactics  Made intermittent appearances at regulated intervals

  15.  Soumd  None

as  16,  Sizo  could not be estimated

  £7?  Botlbs  pale yellowish white (luminous)

  18.  Shapo  N/S

  19.  Odor dotectoa N/S
  20.  Apparent construction n/s
  21.  Exhaust trails  None

  22,  Woathor conditions Clear w/quarter moon in the East-Southeast.

  23.  Effoct on clouds  x/s

  2.  Skotehes or photographs  None

  25.  Manner  of disappearance  Suddenly at  angle 4 rox.  70°  to horizon

  in front) of observ:  o was looking nath
  26.  Romarks:  ‘
  Lt. Glasebrook was a reconnaissance pilot in Warld War II.

  il  idl =  Pe  y As  i
  Unidentified  Flying  Object”

  MCIAXO=3  MCTAKO-}.  16 July is

  le»  At 2147 hours on 9 July 19/8, the undersigned sighted an unidentified object
flying  from east  to west  at  approximately three  or four thousand feet  over the north
end of Osborn,  Ohios

  26  The object appeared as a pale yellowish white  light that seemed to glows.  It
was  not  a  direct  beame  ‘The  light  was  traveling  at  a  rate  of  speed between  five  or
six hundred milese  It  appeared long enough  to allow the  observer  to determine  its
flight path (approximately one to two seconds)  and then went outs  There was a pause
of three  seconds,  the  light  then reappeared  again for  the  same  length  of time,  another
three-second pause  and  the  pattern was  repeatede  After  the  third appearance  it was
  +  seen agains  The  final  sighting was made with the  object  at  an angle  of  approximately
  to the  horizon  in  front  of  the  observer  who was  locking  northe  The  last  sighting
was  slightly above  the  horizon  to the west,  just north  of  Pattern  Fields  The  inter=
mittent  appearance  of  the  light was  at  a regulated interval.

  3e  The  sky was  clear with about  a  quarter moon rising  in the  Bast-southeast;
however, nothing could be  ascertained except  the  glow of the  lights  There was  no sound
or  traile

  le  The undersigned was a reconnaissance pilot in World War II and served for
eight months  in the 160th Reconnaissance  Sqde  (J«Pe)  flying FP-SO type  airorafte
It is believed that his powers of observation are above average and that the estimates
of  speed can be  considered to be  fairly accurates

  CLARENCE GLAZEBROOK  cwG/aw
  Ist Lt»,  USAF  Ext 65310
  Bldg 288
  Post 201F
  CHECK=LIST - UNIDENTIFIED FLYING OBJECTS

 1. Date  1 July 1948  Inoidont# 1400
 2.  Time  Between 2100 and 2200 hours

 3.  Location  Gahanna, Ohio

 4.  Namo of observor  Mr Jack Taylor

  5.  Occupation of observer  N/S but now active in National Guard

  6.  Address of observor  N/S

  7.  Placo of obsorvation  Gahanna, Ohio  ( ground )

  8.  Numbor of objocts  1

  9. Distanco of objoct from observer  v/s
10.  Timo in sight  2 seconds

11,  Altitude  3000 to 000 ft

12,  Speod  terrific

13.  Diroction of flight  Northeast to Southwest

ike  Tactics  Pursued akratghkxtina flat line of flight

15.  Sound  None

eae  aes
17.  Color  bright yellow-white

18.  Shapo  B/S

19.  Odor dotected  N/S
20.  Apparont construction  luminous

2ls  Exhaust trails  x/s
22.  Woathor conditions  Clear - bright moonlight

23.  Bffoct on clouds  N/S
2.  Skotehes or photographs  None

25. Manner of dia ieceeailve  nfs
26.  Romarks:  Mr. Chester Taylor gave the same version as that of his
  son, Mrs ap Abed apparently did ary observe the phenomenon.
  Interrogation

  MCTAXO-3  MCTAXO=1y  19 July hs

  le  Proceeded to the home of Mr. Howard Enslow in Gahanna, Ohio, with an Agent of
the 109th CIC Detachment at 1000, 10 July 1918.

  2e  Interviewed Mrs. Howard Enslow who stated that on the night of 1 July 191¢
between 2100 and 2200 hours, she, Mr. Enslow, Mr. and Mrs. Chester Taylor and their Sons,
Harold and Jack, of 00 Grove St-, Columbus, Ohio, sighted an unidentified object flying
throvgh the aire Mrs. Enslow described it as a “Beattiful golden saucer glowing like a
halo with a silver rim around ite" Direction of flight was from Northeast to Southwest and the object was visible for approximately therr secondse Subject was very vague
  d appeared to attribute the phenomena to holy visitationse Was unable to contact
  Enslowe

  3«  Proceeded to the home of Mr+ Chester Taylor and interviewed his son Jack, age
23, who had three years service and is now active in the National Guards He stated that
the object was a bright yellow-white light that moved through the sky at a terrific rate
 of speeds  It was a glow and not a directed light and was about two seconds in durations
 It ditntt fade out but ceased abruptly. ‘The line of flight appeared to be flat and the
 object appeared from the Northeast going Southwest, at an altitude of about three or
 four thousand.feet. ‘There was no audible noise althcuvgh it was a quiet night and the
 object appeared close in at an angle to the horizon of about forty-five degreese
 Although the sky was clear and the moon was bright nothing but the light was seene

  lhe  Mrs Taylor's story was the same as that of his sonts. Mrs. Taylor was in the
 car and did not observe the phenomenae ‘The other witness was not readily availablee

  56  Proceeded to the sight of the observation and determined that, under the con=
ditions of course and altitude as estimated by the subject, it was possible that their
e of vision was restricted by a grove of trees thus limiting the observed line of
  ight to the two three-second periods reporteds

  CLARENCE GLASEBROOK  cwe/ew
  lst Lt, USAF  Ext 65310
  Bldg 286
  Post 201F
  CHECK-LIST - UNIDENTIFIED FLYING OBJECTS

  le Date  30 June 1948  Incident # Pieae
  2.  Time  11:25 A. M., to 1:27 PM and shortly thereafter

  3.  Location  Hecla, South Dakota

  lk.  Namo of observor  Norman Pfutsenreuter

  5.  Occupation of obsorvor Chemical Engineer - Amateur Astronomer

  6,  Address of observor  Heela, South Dakota  -

  7.  Placo of obsorvation  Between Watertown, S. D., & Webster, S. D,

  8.  Numbor of objocts  1

  9.  Distance of object from obsorvor  y/s
 10.  Timo in sight  Slightly over two hours

 ll,  Altitude  150 miles (7)
  :
 12.  Speod  Stationary

 13.  Diroction of flight  Stationary

 14.  Tactics Remained in one/position then disintegrated
  pprox

 15.  Sound  Wone

 16,  Sizo  w/s
 We  Color  Like polished aluminum... om  PR ee ee  “Pf f
  Ue E  Nowe  Bb  BS
  Changing  i How
  Fg
  S
  7a)
  8
  AoE
  be
 18.  Shapo

 19.  Odor dotoctod  None

 20. <Apparont construction Seemed to be a cluster of parts Ge  }
 21,  Exhaust trails Particles of disintegrating mass left very faint
  trails of vapor
 22,  Woathor conditions Brilliantly clear (CAVU) - Wind velocity 3 MPH
 23.  Effoct on clouds  No clouds

 2h.  Skotches or photographs  Map showing locations of sightings

 25.  #Manner of disappearance  into smaller pieces
  ‘Disintegrated
 26,  Romarks:  Object appeared as cluster of parts which remained fairly e
stationary  and constant for some two hours when it underwent a rather slow  minutes  the_
  A large churk fell off, Within the next  2-1/2
change in sha
entite spot started to Gory cheniy Sisieto ncety Three 1:  parts moves
  if
  a
  over  é
away out from the mass and formed a  perfect isometric triangle, the
remaining mass slowly moved into hu  dreds of small parts seomingly
leaving very faint vapor trails,  The three remaining parte contimed
to move apart holding their related positions of a perfect triangle
but gradually getting smaller and fainter until they 4:  appeared some 9
minutes after the initial break-up.  It could mmxtimeasily be seen
that the parts were moving away from the earth,

  aha
  >  =

  ken &
  CHECK=LIST  - UNIDENTIFIED FLYING OBJECTS

  Date  :  Incident
  # 142

  Time

  4
  Location

  Namo of observer  Mr. Charles W. Shangle, Jr.

  Occupation of  obsorvor

  Address of observor  Boise,  Ideho

  Placo  of observation

  Number of objocts

  Distance  of  objoct  from obsorvor

  Timo  in sight

  Altitude

  Speod

  Diroction of flight

  Tactics

  Sound

  Size

  Color

  Shapo

  Odor dotectod

  Apparent  construction

  Exhaust  trails

  Woathor conditions

  Effect on clouds

  Sketches or photographs

256  Manner of disappearance

26.  Romarks:
  fe aa
  Ga GG

  CHECK-LIST - UNIDENTIFIED FLYING OBJECTS  f

le  dato  aM July is  Iaoudent FW
  Timo  0245  \
3.  Location  20 miles south of Montgomery, Ala

  Namo of Qittted & Mr, McKelvie, SF ~ 3/8)  4
  Bias  Pilot Clarence Shipe Chiles
  & Co-Pilot John B,
he

  Occupation of obsorvor  Pilot and Co-pilot, EAL

  Address of observer  Atlanta Office of EAL

  Placo of observetion  Air - 20 miles south of Montgomery, Ala

  Number of objects  1

  Distance of object eon observers 4H/S
  Timo  in sight  5 to 10 seconds

  Altitude 5,000 ft

  Spood 500 to 700 MPH (See Atlanta Constitution of 25 July 48)
  Direction of flight  Southwest toward Mobile and New Orleans  |

  Tactics Pulled up shersly—ne burst of flame (Atlanta
  Sound  none

  Sizo  100 ft long and sbout twice the diameter of "B-29"

  Color  N/S
  Shapo  cigar~sheped

  Odor dotectoa B/S
  Apparent construction y/s
  Exhaust trails red-orange flame
  blue fluorescent glow running beneath the object
  Woathor sondits ons  Full moon, cleer with broken cloud coverage of 4/10

  Effoct on ome N/S- polled up into one
  9000 ft

  Skotches or photographs  2

  Manner of disappoerance  Disappeared intoa cloud

  Romarks :  See attached statements
  @ CRA
  esa  —_—_—_—_— :
  De Eee Ph

:  d  CHECK-LIST
  = UNIDENTIFIED FLYING OBJECTS

  4s
  1. Date ‘24 July  ;  Incidont# Wha
  2. ‘Time  0230

  3. Ldeotion  Near Blackstone, Va. enroute to Raleigh-Durham
  4.  Namo of observor  Louis Feldwary

  5.  Occupation of obsorvor  pilot

  6.  Address of observor  LGA

  Te  Placo of obsorvation  Air —- neer Blackstone, Va,

  8,  Numbor of objocts  Mmly trail seen

4  9.  Distance of objoct from observer  n/s
  10.  Timo in sight  3/S
  11, Altituae  B/S
  12.  Speed  terrific speed -

  13.  Diroction of flight  230°

  1h.  Tactics  Brail covered an 80° to 90° arc laterally’

  15,  Souna  48/8
  16,  Sizo  B/S

  ¥
  17.  Color  B/S  -  trail perceived - object  |
  wes not seen
  18,  Shapo  4/8
  vevrvrer

  19.  Odor dotectoa  B/S

  20,  Apparent construction  y/s

  21.  Exhaust trails  Seemed to be a jet or rocket trail

  22.  Woathor conditions  at  at Bleckstone:  ©/70 @ 4GF 112/73/72/
  wew 5/987.  Gremnsboro and Raleigh-Bavah had
  ta/a5 plus
  23.  Effoct on clouds  N/S  ye

  2h.  Sketches or photographs  None

  25.  Manner of disappearance  H/S
  26.  Romarks:  (over)
  ees

| ifHi
  speed
  cali

  he at
  athedtime
  iat
  in  of
  g 21
  £1.  \7 path.  It wes on  western horizon at
  abthe
  ovhorize
  on,  ‘The trail covered
  an 80° to 90° arc  laterally.

  NOTE:  Th is
  cighting at Sons te
  er  ae
  the rocket
  1  mimate difference in time
  f,  [thie signs  395(0230) to
  distant,  ne
  Drew, rere" St ee
  aa

  NOTE:  The above time (0230) ta with
  llie  another
  s’
  in the vicinity of Blackstone, » Ve, who sew
  ne by another pilot
  a very unusual meteor
  that appe  to be
  aron a
  edbear:ing of about 210° from them
  traveling
  in a southerly direction above but
  close to the horizon,
  1

  Supplement to Trip Report to Columbus, Ohio
  Ret  Atlanta Sighting  Bl July 1948

  THRU:  Col Clingerman

  TO:  Col McCoy

  gead apeded5 t ac beesdest2% ay
  sqqilaey
i panda:

  R. A, LLSWELLYN
  Major, USAF.
Mr. S, L, Shannon
Eastern Air Lines
Miemi, Fla.

The following is a report of an unidentified aircraft which
was sighted by John Whitted and me, as we were twenty miles
southwest of Mon‘  » Ala. July 24, 1948, as we were on
Eastern's trip 576.

At 2:45 A, M. we were cruising at 5,000 feet when there came,
what looked like a Jet type of atrcreft to our right end slightly
above meeting us.  It wes a clear moonlight night with the visibility excellent; therefore, we were able to view the ship as i
passed for 2 period of cround ten seconis,  It wes
were no wings present, that
  it wes  red by some jet or other
type
  of power shooting fleme from  rear some fifty
  feet. There
were two rows of windows,which indicated an  and lower deck, from
inside these windows « very bright light pdly.< pe  the
ship there was a blue glow of light.

After it passed it pulled
  up into some light broken clouds
end was lost from view.  There was no prop wash or rough ai:
felt ss it passed,

Arter talking to the sty poe  ee Tt  et
only the trail
  of  fire
  as it  end pulled into the clouds.
I called the company at Co’  and asked if there was any reported fet arny craft and requested  the ATC had any aircraft
under control,  I wae told that no
either source,
  /s/ ©. %, Chiles
  C. Ss Chiles
  Capt
  B. A. L,

  lo
  5 WE  STRAT
  WS9eel  HOw  WWE  LL  he
  Tas
  to

  CHECK=LIST  - UNEDENTIFIED FLYING OBJECTS

  le  Date  24 July hg  Incidont # Vi  ©
  Time  0230

  Be  Location  Between Blackstone, Va. and Greensboro, N..C.

  he  Namo of observer  Capt Perry R, Mansfield,

  Occupation of obsorvor  Capt on 571/23 EAL

  Address of observor  EAL

  Placo of obsorvation Between Blackstone, Va. end Greensboro, B.C.
  Numbor of objects  1
A

  Distance of object from observer  a/s

  Timo  in sight  3  seconds

  Altitude  ¥/S

  Spood  meteoric

  Direction of flight  southerly

  Tactics  traveling horizontally

  Soua  3/8  :

  Sizo y/ 8  |
  Color y/ s
  18,  Shapo  H/ s
  19.  Odor dotectoa B/S  3  ‘  ;
  20.  Apparent construction ¥/s -
  21.  Exhaust trails  4/8  fa
  22,  Woathor conditions  MfS  CAVU

  23.  Bffoct on clouds  8/8  ;  ,
  Skotches or photographs None

  256  Manner of disappearance  “died out" in the distance
  26.  Romarks:  (over)  |

  438  ee
  pilot
At about 0230 on July 24, 19g, C. Kingsley/and Capt Perry
  R. Mansfield
Saw what they thought was an unusual meteor.  It was brighter than
any ever seen before and traveling in a horizontal direction, slightly
above the horizon.  It was observed for 3 seconds before it died out,
At no time did it appear to travel in a downward direction, Kingsley
& Mansfield discussed the matter that the meteor appesred to be
  traveling horizontally,

At the time they were traveling between Blackstone,
  Vs., and Greensboro,
5. C.»  The sky was clear and the visibility unlimited.  They were ona
magnetic heading of 240° and estimated the object to be
  on a bearing of
about 210° from them - that is - abou  30 t
  © to the left of their heading,
It appeered to be traveling ina southerly direction, above, but
  close
to the horizon,

NOTE:  There is a 15 minute variance in tiem time f/this sighting
  (0230) to the rocket sighting at O245 in Atkexsome
  te’ 400 to
  475 miles distant. The time (0230) also tallies with Inc lle
  Pilot Louis Feldwary's account of sighting a jet or rocket
  trail
  just after leaving Blackstone.
-

  srwwisat  LTV
  C Eo I U Ub Cen
  CHECK=LIST - UNIDENTIFIED FLYING OBJECTS  S

  Date  9 duly 1948  :  Incidont # 145
  i.

  Timo  1205 AST  %

  3s  Location Ficlding Lake
  he  Namo of observers  1st Lt Dominick J. Ceramia & Thomas B. Carpenter

  Se  Occupation of obsorver s(VIR) Photo

  Address of obsorvoms 72nd RCN Squadron (VIR) Photogrephic
  c/o APO 731, c/o Postmaster Seattle Washington
  Te  Placo of observation  Fielding Lake, Alaska (63°11' - 145° hot w

  8.  Nunbor of objocts  Approximately 20

  %  Distance of objoct from obsorvor  5,000 +  ebove

  10.  Timo in sight  5 seconds or less

  Ihe  Altitude  5,000 +  immediately below the clouds

  12,  Speod  over 500 MPH

  v.  Diroction of flight  From WW to ESB

  1h.  Tactics  Jockeyed back and forth in the group formation (gave
  impression of shotgun blast pattern) but maintained straight
  15.
  donee  course.  og
  Loud roaring sound heard (thought it was strong wind) before |
  Sizo dot  objects were sighted; sound sharpened into a buzz as they
  epproached and passed,
  grayish black
  /

  Color

  Shapo  2YSodm bapmorextigomonixfs sm  Spheroid or disc-shsaped  |

  Odor dotected  N/S

  Apparent construction  n/s

  Exhaust trails  none visible

  Woathor conditions bright and sunny we strato-cumulus cloud coverage
  Effoct on clouds  none - flew immediately below them

  Manner of disappoarance N/S
  Romarks;  The odjects resembled a group of dots, grayish black in
  color and numbering about 20. They were plainly visible and either
  spheroid or disc shaped.  eppeered to be jockeying back and
  oUt  ee RaeA AA
  tM IA L
  CHECK=LIST ~ UNIDENTIFIED FLYING 0!  TIA
  Date  17 July 1948  adant  146
  a.  Timo  1650

  Be  Locetion  Vieinity of San Acacia Dem, 65 miles south of Albuquerque
  Namo of observors  M/Sgt Wm R, Carter & M/Sgt Bernard B. Harvey

  De  Occupation of obsorvor8

  6.  Address of observor  428th AFBU Kirtland AF Base

  Te  Placo  of observetion  Vicinity ef Sen Acacia Dem

  8.  Numbor of objcots  7
  Distanco of objoct from observer
  4/8

10.  Timo in sight  W/8

ll.  Altitude  20,000 ft

12,  Speod  1,500 MPH (if estimated altitude correct)

  Diroction of flight  northerly heading  (between north and northwest)

  Tactics  Maintained formation

  Sound  B/S

  Sizo  4/s
  color  Color of alumimun aircraft at high altitude
  Shapo  Waen overhead: cirealar, After passing zenith! indeterminate
  Odor dotectod  B/S  ;
  aopeaan construction  metallic
  Exhaust trails  one  :  ,
  Weather conditions  CAvU  At 20,600 ft wind velocity § to 10 miles »

  Ettoct on clouds  _ B/S
  Sketches or photographs  None

  Manner of disappoarance  3K In northvest
  Romarks:  (over)
  « Npcytn de nedexperi
  Harvey i
  a  enceAF
  d non-com accustom
  ed to
  t various altitudes and Speeds,
EVALUATION OF INFORMANTS:  "4"
  OF INFORMATION:  3,
  é | erpexeast = Fs cian FLYING OBJECTS  :
  Date  27 duly 19g  ips:  oY  dad
  Time |  2200
  Location  Springfield, Ohio
  hy
  || Name of observer  Mrs, H, E, Gibson

  5. By sicatioes of obsorvor Housewife
  6. \Address of amactaer , 1217 East Mein St,
  7»  Placo of observetion  Springfield, Ohio

  8. Iponbior of objects
  |
  1  e

  @  oe Pistance of object from obsorver N/S
  10, Tino in sight  3 seconds
|  1,  Altitude  Great height
  12..  Speoa  Thet of a jet plene  :
  13.  Diroction of flight  Hesding North  Zt

  1h.  Tactics  None - traveled in a straight line

  15.  Souna  None  3
  Ho  3h  16,  Size  Witness stated object resembled a "mmge bell"

  (4  17.  Color M/S
  i  18.  Shape  Round
  19.  Oior dotectea None
  20.  Apparent construction  x/s
  21.  Exhaust trails  Bright red tail of fire

  22.  Weather conditions  Some thunder and lightning

|  23.  Effoct on clouds  4/8

  2h.  Sketches or photographs  Jqne

  25.  Manner of disappearance  Flew out of sight  \

  26.  Romarks:  See attached
  CHECK=LIST - UNIDENTIFIED FLYING OBJECTS

  ie  Date  | 28 July 1948  Inoidon#
  t  ihe
  Time HOO  y  -
  Be  Location  Springfield, Ohio.
  he  Namo of|observor  Mrs. Rose Henry
 :  i

  Oceupation of obgorvor  Housewife  i '
  6.  Address|of observor  826 Dibert Avenue, Springfield, Ohio

  Te  Placo of observation  826 Dibert Ave., Springfield, Ohio

  8.  Number  of objects  1

  a  Distaney of object from obsorver  3/§

 10,  Timo in|sight  Ist timet  5 mimtes;  24 time:  15 mimtes

i.  Altituas  N/S
me  Speod  | Remained nearly stationary

B.  Direction of flight  n/s
1h.  Tacties  Hovering
  Souna  |  3S  sighto  sogeee’  erd sound of p:  defore she
15.

  Sizo  it the size of a basketball

17.  Color  Intense yellow

18.  Shapo

19.  Odor dotectod a/ 5
  Apparent construction  4/8
  e
  ‘a4
  eS
  eoTWB
  Ric
  tx
  h 8 ed)
  oBLS
  '  i

  CHECK=LIST  - UNIDENTIFIED FLYING OBJECTS

  le  Date  19 Jan ls  Incidont# hg
  26  Timo  7:30 aM
  Be  Location  North Jutland (Hjerrin, the Scaw and Hjerup)

  he  Name of observor  a/s
  .  )  Taken from OMA R-34-"g (HAD 11796)
  De  Occupation of obsorvor  W/S  as prepared by Lt Col Franklin E,

  6  Address of observor W/S  nee
  Te  Placo  of obsorvation  ~ North Jutland

  Numbor of objects  3X  Three

  oe  Distance  of object  from observer  a/s

 10.  Timo in sight  43/S

By  Altitude  4N/S
12.  Spood  apparently rocket-like

LB.  Direction of flight  AK  East - West

1h.  Tactics  “suddenly stopped, exploded and disappesred"

15.  Souna  3/S
16.  Sizo  B/S
We  Color y/ s
18.  Shapo  ball = saucer

19.  Odor dotectod H/s
  Apparent construction  YFocket~like objects

al.  Exhaust trails  ‘mtkboot tail of green light

22.  Woathor conditions  4¥/S
23  Effoct on-clouds  ¥/S  :  :
  Skotehes or photographs  None  2
25.  “Manner of disappoerance  Exploded and disappeared

26.  Romarks:  (over)
  CHECK=LIST  - UNIDENTIFIED FLYING OBJECTS

  Dato  Approx 1 Mar 4g  poddent
  le  + /150

  2.  Time  0930 hours.  ;
  3.  Location  Swedish Coast

  Namo of observor  N/S  = a Norwegian pilot

  De  Occupation of  obsorvor  ONL pilot

  66  Address of obsorvor  y/s  Material taken from MA
  geen  gd
  Te  Placo ée obsorvation  Air= enroute from hathoig, a
  Denmark to
  * Oslo, Norway
  8.  Numbor  of  objocts  1

  so  Distance of objoct from observor  y/s

  10.  Timo in sight  % seconds

 th,  Altitude  20,000 ft

 12,  Spoca  N/S

 i.  Direction of flight  Southeast - zee along Swedish Coast
  and di  over Norway
 1h.  Tactics  N/S
  - flight path followed earth's surface

 15.  Sound  W/S

 16.
  ae  4n/S
  i  emitted
 17.  Color  4§/S  but SESEEESE a bluish~greon flame

 18.  Shapo  y/s

 19.  Odor dotectod  N/S

20.  Apparent construction  W/S

21.  Exhaust trails  None

 22.  Woathor conditions  4/S

23.  Effoct on clouds  B/S

  Skoteches  or photographs  None

“25.  Manner of disappoaranco  Over Norway

26.  Romarks:  (over)  ee  E>FD
  " 6
  ile coping from the Southe
  ast, passing along the Swe
and disappearing over Nor  dish Coast
  way.  The missile was at 20,000
  ft and disappeared
  on in four seconds.  It emitted a bluish-green
left no trail in the sky.  flame but
  The projectile seemed to fxm
  follow the

NOTE:  Similar missiles have been obse
  rved  at Rjuken, Norway & Finse,
  Norway.
  In this connection, it is of
  interest to know that heavy
  is currently being produced in  water
  Bju  ken,

  de ae
  Observers:  A
  with the Royal Norwegian AF in
  Pilot and his co-pilot.

  tain,

  Pe
  ee  es iu
  ay 27 ae 8: Vice Ge BV § UG @ the»
  CHECK=LIST  = UNIDENTIFIED FLYING OBJECTS

  Date  29 duly 1948  neidont# 151

  Time  0955

  sketch of Tooution)
  Locetion  Northeaste
  part
  rn of Indianapolis, Indiana (See attached

  Name of observers  Mr. James W, Toney & Mr, Robert Huggins

  Occupation of obsorvor8  a Both employees of W. 0. Jones Rug
  Cleaners
  Address  of  observer  Toney3  235 So Bradley, Indianapolis
  Huggins:  5040 Indiansole,  lis  .
  Placo  of observation  (See attached drawing of loca’

  Numbor of objocts  1

  Distanco of objoct  from obsorvor  4¥/S - not over a few hundred feet

  Timo in sight  4/S

  Altitude  30 feet - just above tree-tops

  Speed  25 to 30 MPH

  Diroction of flight  Headed south in bank to left

  Tactics  gliding with no apparent spinning action

  Sound  no discernible sound

  Size  6 to 8 feet long by 1=1/2 to 2 feet wide (See attach drwg.)

17.  Color  Aluminum and shiny in color

  Shapo  Shaped like a broad short propeller (See attached drwg.) °

19.  Osiae vghe sted y/s
20.  Apparont conan Qusicmn construction
21.  Exhaust trails  None

Be.  Woathor conditions  CAVU = no clouds

23.  Effoet on clouds Wo elouds
2h.  Skotches or photographs  2

25.  Manner of disappoarance Went down in wooded area (estuingy)
26,  Romarks:  (over)  on  ee  ea c=  Ai:  F
  wi Ye ove bo
  y ii  Brows
rats  TM  Po  OM  ewe  om  oeacc  2  f  £

  ObJect was shaped like a broad short propeller approximat
  ely 6 to 8 ft long,
  each blade approximately 2 feet wide and approximately
  8  8
  Upper side of blades.  It
  one foot thick with
  ered alumimm end shiny in color,
  Traveled approximately 25 to 30  It wes sighted just above the trees
  at approximately a 30 ft altitude in bank to the
  left of approx 20° and
  appeered in a slight descent.  There was no discernible sound end no ex-

  NOTE:  Tr had
  uc  just
  k started across bridge (see drwe
  ) when object vas
  sighted directly ahead above the trees
  ,  Witnesses stopped on the
  other side of the cantilever bridg
  e but could not relocete object.

  Seerch by Lt John E. Hoskins, Base PIO,
  and Lt Russell J, Carey, Jr.
  Base Intel Off, (351st AFBU) Res Tng
  Stout Fld. did not produce any
  result, However the area in which it
  was believed to have fallen is
  densely wooded with many hills
  and valleys.  See diagram attached,
Ce
  CHECK=LIST  - UNIDENTIFIED FLYING OBJECTS

  1.  Date  31 July 4g  y  ;  ;  # 152
  Incidont

  2, Time  0825  ;  q
  3+  Locotion  Indianapolis, Indiana (South-Central part)  5)
  hl.  Mame of observors  Mr, & Mrs Vernon Swigert

  5+  Occupation  of obsorvors  MMEHBEK  an electrician  and housewife  |

  6.  Address of observors  2020 Boyd St., Indianapolis, Indiana

  7»  Placo  of  observetion  As above —

  8.  Numbor  of objects  1

  Je  Distance of object  from observer  N/S

 10,  Timo  in sight  10 seconds

ll.  Altitude  2,000 ft

12.  Speod  1890 MPH

13.  Direction of flight  90°  = east

lh.  Tactics B/S

15,  Sound  None  i

16.  Sizo  OOKGEXE  -  20 ft in dia. and approx 6 to 8 ft in height
  in center - Ratio about 3:1
17.  Color  white with no shine

18.  Shapo  like a cymbal

19.  Odor dotected . B/S

20,  -Apparent construction  y/s

21.  Exhaust trails  None

22,  Wop tabi aimee  Sky clear
230  Effoct on denen  y/s
2h,  Sketches or photographs  1

256  Manner of disappearance  4/s
  Remarks:  (over)
 Object first perceived
  in the west.  The
  object wes Shaped like
 with smooth surfaces  a cymbal
  and Spproximetely 20
 and epproximately 6  feet in diameter at
  to & feet in height  the base
 It appeared to be flat  in the center, Ratio
  white tn col  was about 3:1.
  or
  with no shine.  It traveled extremely
fast crossing the sky
  in Spproximately 10 sec  |
on a 90° heading, It ma  onds (a distance of abo
  intained level course and  ut 5 miles;
giving the  shimmered in the cun
  of spinning, The altitude was estima  j
imately 2,  ft. Objec  ted at epprox—
  t made no discernible sou  |
Mo openings were noted  nd and left no exhaust tra
  on the object.  il,

NOTE:  Mr. Swigert was standing
  by  open bat
  hroom xtmtmmx vindow vinich
  faces the west when he
  was attracted by the ob
  Couldn't believe his eye  ject in the sky.
  s, He rushed into adjoin
  ing kitchen

NOTE:  Investigation conducted
  by Intel Officer, 1st
  Jr., on @ call from Mr,  Lt Russe  ll J. Carey,
  Swigert.  It wes noted that visibi
  goed from both windows for  lity wes
  such observation,

  No other reports received
  on this object.

  Ld

  *  ae  bd  Ana:
  e SESTRICHED
  CHECK=LIST - UNIDENTIFIED FLYING OBJECTS

  le  Dato | xf 5 August lg  Incidon#
  t  153
  2.  Time  0100 hours

  Be  Location  Between Parrott, Ga, and Richland,Ge.

  he  Name of observer  James Amaral, Former AF Pilot

  5e  Occupation of obsorvor  B/S - bat formerly AF pilot

  6  Address of observor  N/S  (Info forwarded f/Turner AF Base)

  Te  Placo  of obsorvation  Between Parrott, Ga,  & Richlani, Ga.

  8.  Numbor of objocts  1

  De  Distance of object from obsorver  4/8

 10.  Time in sight  5 to 10 seconds  7

Be:  Altitude  20,000 to 35,000 ft

12.  Speod  JMBE 3600 MPH (estimated)

3.  Direction of flight  250°

1h.  Tactics  “N/S

15.  Sound  Wone

16.  Size  W/S

17.  Color  Dblue=white streak of light

18.  Shapo  "stfeak"

19.  Odor dotectod  y/S

20.  Apparent construction  "rocket-like"
2h,  Exhaust trails  A trail of sparks several miles long followed it

22.  Woathor conditions  CAV

23.  Effoct on clouds  N/S

2h.  Sketches  or  photographs  None

256  Manner of disappearance  4/8

26.  Romarks:  (over)

  OS  =,
Witness was traveling  between Perrott,
 automobile when he obs  Ga., and Richland, Ga., in an
  erved a brilliant blu
lasted from 5 to 10  e-white streak of lig
  seconds, traveling in an app  ht which
  of approximately 250°,  arent level flight on a
  at sbout 30,000 ft alt
After the light disappeare  itude (estimated).
  d a trail of  was observed which app
several miles long.
  This trail lasted from  eared
  45 seconds to (1) mim
  te
NOTE:  Mr, Amaral did not
  believe this to be
  his experi  any celestial but ba
  as
  eanpil
  ce ot  in the 4F, he stated it app  sed on
  @ burst of power eppl
  ieto
  d a rocket or rocket
  eared to be
  shiple

  ~
  CHECK=LIST - UNIDENTIFIED FLYING OBJECTS

  1. Dato  2 ug
  hg  Incidont# 154
  2.  Timo  1945 hours

  3.  Location  Columbus, Ohio  :
  \.  Namo of observer  Charles Saunders

  5.  Occupation of obsorvor  Sttorney

  6,  Address of observor  2651/2 South High St
  7.  Placo of observation  Yard of 1337 Clifton Ave., Columbus, Ohio

  8,  Numbor of objects  =

  9.  Distance of object from obsorvor  u/s

 10.  Timo in sight  1615 mimtes

ll.  Altitude  1,500 to 2000 ft

12.  | speoa  15 MPH  "

13.  Direction of flight  Moving south from the north

1k.  Tactics  Constant slow speed - Once it hesita  & thin
  tedtrail of
  smoke issued from opposite direction of travel. Changed position assuming
15.  Sound  None  different shapes

16.  Sizo  Judged to be about 20 to 30 ft in diameter

17.  Color  WN/S,  Perimeter:  constant grey-black,  Center:  transparent.

18,  Shapo  Changing. First: side-view: Perallelogram. Second: ctteae
  then reverted to original form  A
19.  Odor dotectod N/S

20.  Apparent construction  y/s

21.  SBxhaust trails  thin trail of smoke

 2.  Weather conditions  CAV

23.  -Bffoct on clouds  No clouds

2h.  Sketches or photographs  4 sketches

25.  Manner of disappearance  W/S

26,  Romarks:  (over)  sa  a  eal

  Sc.
  a

On 2 Ang kg at approx 1945 a round object which
  appe
  to be
  ar abou
  ed t 20 to
30 ft in diemeter was observed moving in
  southerly direction from  the
north over center of —  Hed constant grey-black perimeter with
  a
ee  ent center,
  ‘tent, slow speed Bh open 15 MPH, It
  blue sky could be observed
  this grey-black

  any kind,  Once it hesttated in its movements
  and a thin
5
trail of sncke issued from the opposite
  &  B  §  8
  direction of travel.  The smoke
  seen again during the 10 to 15 mimtes
  object
wes visible  to the observer.  The object changed position = but not direc
of  tion
  a  “4 When ree rag Pon ag ard : emerned @ side
view  ch was a
  pany  ogram  5
  bg 1m dc nihae sine es its original
  .  owly its
form, The altitude was judged to be some 1500 to 2000
  tion altered
  ft above  ground.

  ‘

  Agent's Note:  Seunders drew the following sketches
  il.
  och  ie me ug  Incidont #  15Me
  Time  7250 P.M.

  3e  Location  Columbus, Ohio

  he  2 of observor Jaymes Seunders, A. BL, M, A,
  Se  Occupation of obsorvor  Housewife

  Address of observor  1337 Clifton Ave,  Columbus, Ohio

  Te  Placo of obsorvetion  Columbus, Ohio

tes  8.  Numbor of objocts  1

  De  Distance of object from obsorvor  ¥/S

  10.  Timo  in sight  15 mimtes

  iy  * Altitude  MfS  1/2 mile high

  12.  Speod  slow ahd regular speed

  3.  or  we flight  °  from North to South to Southwest

  1h.  Tactics/ Oblong to circular to oblong change in shape

  15.  Souma  Wone

  16,  Sizo  Of emall plane

  17.  Color  4/8
  18,  Shapo  Changing’
  but circular for the most pert

  19.  Odor dotectoa  3/8

  20,  Apparent construction ‘  a/s  c
  21.  Exhaust trails  teil of smoke  4

  22,  Woathor conditions  Umeuslly favoreble for observation. Light sufficient
  without interference from sun's rays.
  23.  Effoct on clouds  Cloudless  :  |
  2h.  Skotehes or photographs |  Fone

  25.  Manner of disappearance  4/8
  26.  Romarks:  (over)
TS

  On 2 ug 48, at 7:50 P. M. Mrs, Saunders observed an
  umsual
  obin
  jethect
  eky, Her attention was directed toward
  it becemse
  some neighborhood children were 1oo!  towthe
  ard
  north.  She
  called her Imsbend, Charles Sanders,  (Inc 154) to witness
  the
  phenomenon, The sky was cloudless and the light more
  than.
  sufficient, withont interf from erethe ncerays of the sun which
  were hidden by the buildings of the city.

  observation the object treveled approx 7-1/2 miles.
  Although
  it did not change its course, it presented differ
  ent  erences
  from time to time, From oblong to circular then to
  o}
  Object went thru this change three different times until
  observer
  lost sight of it.  However, for the most part it presented a cir

  parencp of the center.  ‘ed
  observer aware of the cen’  & vo  =
  momen’  » observer noi  a  smoke emanati
  fromng
  the
  » after which the object conti
  in a
  mesouthe
  d rly direction,  |
  servi  once.  The size appesr
  toed
  be
  t+ made no sound altho at one time observer
  th she
  ou
  |
  detec
  gh  ted one,
  t  At appr
  8:00 P,
  ox  M. observer lost sight  |
  of the object just as it eppeered to be changing direct
  ion from
  OMe PAR
  @  Vir (OBNT PAL
  et.  oz

  CHECK#LIST  - UNIDENTIFIED  FLYING OBJECTS

  Date = ee rae ne >  Incidont # 155
  Time  1630  \

  Location  4go N, Monroe Ave.,
  Columbus, Ohio
  Namo  of  observor  Mrs,  Edwerd G,  Watson

  Occupation of obsorvor  Housewife

  Address of obsorvor  480 N. Monroe Ave., Columbus, Ohio  |

  Placo of spuewebeal: Columbus, Ohio  s
  Numbor of objocts  6or7  i

  Distance of object  from observer  Very great distance away

 10.|  Timo in sight  B/S  {

  | Altitude  B/S  = very great

  Speod  Hovering

  Direction of flight  B/S
  | Tactics  Hovering  -hanging in the sky  |

  Sound  w/s  -

  Sizo  of am ash tray

  Color  gold

  Shapo  starlike

19.  Qdor dotoctoa  B/S
20.  Apparent construction  n/s

21.  Exhaust trails  x/s
22.  Woathor conditions  CAYO - bright sunlight

23.  Effoct on clouds  B/S

  Skotches or photographs  None

256  Saha of disappearance  3/s  :
26.  Rewasica :  (over)  wr  &:
  cl]
  |
4\b
  Witness Statement:  -  .  ;  6

  individually but  shape
  sky. Shay Nene pela in aver caf sessed to be Sect Setr t ey,
  % seemed to be a group of spots  glitter-  in the
  The sky was clear and blue and the sun wes shining but do not believe
  Bromus fe
  5)

  CHECK-LIST - UNIDENTIFIED FLYING OBJECTS

  Dato  BL duly Ms  Incidont# 156
  Time  8:00 P. M,

  Location  + Columbus, Ohio - Trement Rd near WSU radio tower
  located near University Golf Course
  Name of observer  Mrs, Martin Price & Mrs. Mary Rippetoe

  Occupation of  obsorvor
  Mrs. Price:  housewife
  Mrs, Mary Rippetoe:  mother of Mrs, Price
  Address of observor  2186 Lemont Aves, Columbus, Ohio

  Placo  of observation  Premont Rd near WOSU Badio Tower

  Numbor  of objects  2

  Distance of objoct from observer  250 feet

  10.  Timo in sight  3/8

  ll.  Altitude  250 feet

  Speed  very slow

  Direction of flight  West to East

  Tactics  Did not change course or altitude

  Sound  No noise

  Sizo  of gasoline drum - Approx 5' x 6!
  Color Ness Black
  Shapo  Oblong
  “
  Odor dotectod  us

  20.  Apparent construction  &/S

  al.  Exhaust trails  Spouted black smoke from the top

  22.  Woathor conditions  Clear with no clouds

  23.  > Bffoct on clouds  No clouds

  Sketches or photographs  None  ;  ,  ts

  | 25.  Manner of disappdarance 4/8
  26.  Romarks:  (above)  en  wal ae  ce  Wen

Rh  a  ae
Ob

 AUCH
  i 3
 2934  seen
  dayl:
  and
  mo
  the
  Ling
  | 2  the  ‘e was a dull enclosed  light
 aBS
  qa  i
  olbject did not change its course or altitude
  east

  a53° eas
  Ee  NOTE: Another car stopped near them with two occupants who claimed
  that they had never witnessed anything like it before,
  CHECK=LIST - UNIDENTIFIED FLYING OBJECTS

le  Date  31 duly 4g

  Time  8:90 P, M,

Be  Locotion  Columbus, Ohio

he  Himsi-et obstrvex’ | Mebar’ O. Gemeeen
  Occupation of obsorvor  Teletype Operator

  Address of obsorvor  State Highway Patrol Radio Station

  Placo of obsorvetion  Near Golf Driving Regge, Columbus, Ohio

  Numbor of objocts  1

  Distance of object from observer  Object was balloon which fell
  Tne ie fe as was investigated by observer

  Altitude  Ceme to earth from aroun
  100 d
  ft (when first observed)
  Speca  W/S  %
  Direction of flight  earthward

  Thetis  3/8
  Sound  4/S
  Sizo  2ftx 3-1/2 tt

  Golor  white crepe paper

  Shapo  W/S - bat said to be like old time "County Fair" balloon - round
  dor dotoctoa  ¥/S

  construction  ¢Pepe paper

  SEB epee  smoking - caused by large bell of waste material
  Woathor conditions  W/S = (clear + see Incident: 156)
  Effoct on clouds  B/S  (no clouds)

  $kotckes or photographs  None

  Manner of Sineunsesanbe Fell to earth where it was retrieved.
  Remarks;  (over)
Object was perceived floating in the sky coming from the west over Ohio
State Student Housing Project and was approximately 100 feet off the
when first observed.  It got lower all the time and landed in a field nearby.
Three amall boys ran toward it and observer went over to investigate,
Saw paper bag affair approx 2 feet in diameter and 3-1/2 feet 1  made of
white crepe|paper, (like old time "County-Fair" hot air balloons)  It
was smoking|when first observed and this was caused bya lerge ball of waste
material woich was fastened underneath it, There were no marks or writing
on it ambiguities
  4

Note:  See Incident 156 - in which time & direction tally.
  :  VUIT po Pe, bial
  exp

  CHECK=LIST = UNIDENTIFIED FLYING OBJECTS

  hey  assay
  ee
  le  Incidont
  # 158

  2.  T  2300 P. M.

  3.  em  ESWERIE Groveport, Ohio
  he  Name  of observor  Harold
  A, Yantis

  5.  Occupation of obsorver  Student, @

  6.  -  of observor  25 West Hinman Ave,

  Te  aco of observation  ] mile west of Groveport, Ohio

  8.  Hanbor of objocts ]  P
  De  Distance of object from obsorvor  3/s

10,  ‘Timo in sight &/S
ne  | Altitude  WA very high
12.  Speed  ¥/s
13.  Diroction of flight im westerly direction against a light wind
1h.  actics N/S  - just exhamst visible - smoke pattern dark & very large
  not snegihigg ce baer  een es eater  streak a4 mile or so in length
15.  Sound  Wo sound  twisted from wide to narrow streak
  :  and back,
16.  Sizo  W/S - object not seen

17.  boter B/S - object not seen
18.  Shapo  duét a streak observed
19.  Odor dotectea ¥/S  :

20.  Apparent construction ffx = An exhaust trail (smoke)
21.  Exhaust trails  Appeared as black cloud with no definite shape but looked
  like an anti-aircraft shell a few seconds after it exploded
  Woather conditions  ouiposositteochouds  Few white clouds - but @eer
  Effoct on clouds  black cloud silhouetted among them that moved

  Sketches or photographs  3 figs.

25e  Manner of disappoaranco  H/s

26.  Romarks:  (over)

  a  >  =  rg
  ei WESd  BOs  Ges  :  Jor
Veg/

  explodes. Suddenly it stretched out into a wide streak with smaller
  vertical streaks, then rapidly turned and twisted, moving into a
  different direction and disappearing. In three or four seconds, the
  smoke burst appeared again spontaneously, approximately 20? west
  of the place where first noticed. Smoke pattern dark, very large, end
  dispersed rapidly, app again esr  as a
  ing wide stre  mile or so in
  a ak
  to twist froma wide to 4 narrow streak and then
  length which appeared
  back again  direction as it twisted. Moving in westerly
  direction against light wind. Plainly visible altho far away and very high,
  No sound heard. Seemed like a streak that would be made if a flying
  singe Sertrre en Wifx  gin  es
  banking and tur and  g exhaust
  leaving
  nin
  Be

  Note: Yantis was in the war and had seen a lot of anti-aircraft
  shells burst and many vapor trails from planes but hac never
  observed anything like this. He states: “It was so spontaneous
  like a rubber band which is round, then suddenly is stretched at
  len  twisted, and then disappears without a trace."
  gth
  and
  Agent's Note:  Yantis drew the sketches below

  Streak twisted and turned - suddenly disappeared  M
  ipgerr aD) fe pee,
  width same -
  at 1 to
  estim  ate  d
  2 miles

  3  \  om  L:  raat
  oe
  8
  ®V.EOo  mil Leu
  CHECK=LIST  - UNIDENTIFIED FLYING OBJECTS

  ate  30  duly  19kg
  le  Incidont  #  159

  2.  ime  2015 hours

  Be  Location  Worthington, Ohio

  he  Name  of  observer  John A,  Felton

  De  Oceupation of obsorvor N/S

  6.  Address  of observor  5800 High St,  Worthington, Ohio

  Te  Placo of observation  Worthington, Ohio
  8.  Numbor of objocts  pA

  oe  Distance of object  from obsorver  y/s  |

 10,  Timo  in sight  15 minutes

11.  Altitude  Approx 3000 ft

12.  Spood  very slow

3.  Direction of flight  Sw

lhe  Tactics  None

15.  Sound  None

16,  Sizo  4/8

17.  Color  silver

18,  Shapo  cylindrical

19.  Odor dotectea  N/S

20.  Apparent construction  y/s  ,

21.  Exhaust trails  4/S

22.  Woathor conditions  Clear with high scattered clouds, visibility good
  Effoct on clouds  n/s

  Sketches or photographs  None

  pened of disappoarance  y/s
  Remarks:  (over)

  g% ths x
v}o/
  § UNS
  f
  cea
  e  &  us
  1

  Object appeared cylindrical in shape with no appar
  surfaces,
  ent wings  or tail
  No standard marker lights were displ
  ayed and there were no
  engine noises,  The object emitted a steady silve
  r glow.

  Altitude was gudged to be approximately
  3000 ft and the object was moving
  very slowly in a southwest course.
  It was in line of vision some 15 mim
  No other aircraft, military or civilian  tes,
  were in vicinity of Felton's
  hear  or in
  visio
  g n, The sky was clear with high scattere
  d clouds and
  the visibility was good.

  NOTE:  Felton questioned by Maj Campbell of
  the USAF, but no
  further was gained by this interview with
  the exception
  that his wife also saw the object.
  CHECK=LIST  - UNIDENTIFIED FLYING OBJECTS

  1.  Date  4% July 48  ei  ;  Incidont # 160

  2.  Time  11315 P.M.

  3.  Location  Dravasburg, Pa,

  l.  Namo of observer  John Jannicky, Jr.

  5.  Occupation of obsorvor  n/s
  &  Address of observor  Box 227, Dravasburg, Pa.

  7.  Placo of observetion  Dravasburg, Pa.  |

  8.  Numbor of objocts  1  {

  9-  Distanco of object from observer  n/s

 10,  Timo in sight  20 seconds +

ll,  Altitude B/S

12.  Speod  . Hovering - then moving on at undetermined speed

13.  Diroction of flight  ¥/S
1h.  Tactics  moved across sky, stopping three times and resuming movement

15.  Soumd  No noise

16.  Size  of a ster

17.  Color  same as a star

18.  Shdpo  looked like a ster

19.  Odor dotectod ‘n/S
20.  Apparent construction  y/s
21,  Exhaust trails  ——‘N/S  :
22.  Woathor conditions  3/8
23.  Effect of clouds  B/S  :
2h. | Skotehes or photographs_"Vague sketch
25.  Manner of disappearance _  a/s
26.  Romarks:  (over)
dooctnexetextioxtiiexabgjertxtit. Then they thought it was a plane but
it made no noise, The object moved across the sky, then changed its course
a bit and went straight and stopped again for about 5 seconds, changed its
course a bit and went straight for awhile and stopped again this time forat
least 15 seconds, then it went across the sky a little ways and disappeared
completely.  When the object stopped in the sky, it resembled a ster and only
by following its course could the difference be noticed.

NOTE:  Witness states that he lives some 2-1/2 miles from the two woman
  (McKeesport, Pa.) who reported seeing a big silver plate zooming
  ee, overhead in the direction of Kennywood Parit. ‘See Inc.
  161.
  8.  Numbor of objocts  1  .

  oe  Distance of sowing from iheetiedl bl
 10.  Timo in sight  48/8
 il.  Altitude  ‘B/S
 12.  Speed  y/S
 3.  Diroction of flight  N/S - toward Kennywood Park

 lhe  Tactics  W/S

 15.  Sound  noiseless  i

 16.  Sizo 12 to15 inches india,
 1.  Color  silver  :  A
 18,  Shapo  “plate”

 196  Odor dotected  N/S

  Apparent construction y/s

ahs  Exhaust trails  4/S
 22.  Woathor conditions  §/S

 23.  Effoct on clouds  disappeared in cloud bank

  Sketches or photographs  None

 256  Manner of disappearance  disappesred in bloud bank

 26.  Romarks:  (over)  ge  ga Se ry  if
Witness saw what looked like a "big rent te" zooming noiselessly
overhead in the direction ef Kennywood Perky  é
"Oh look, that's not a plane, screamed Mrs. Veway of 3404 Grover to
her neighbor, Mrs, Goltz, 3604 Grover, "it lookeglike one of those
flying saucers."

Mrs, Veway said the disc was about 12 to 15 inches in diameter.  It
disappesred in a cloud bank but reappeared on the far side and was seen
by Mrs. Goltz.  They followed the direction of the disc until out of  sight.

NOTE: ‘Taken from the Daily News "McKeesport,
  Pa, - July
  8, 1948.

  /02%0—
i

  Se  :  ay

  CHECK=LIST = UNIDENTIFIED FLYING OBJEC
  TS

  ; le  Date  12 dug 48  Incidont # 162
  2.  Time  1200 and 1215 hours CS?

  3e  Location  Hemel, Minnesota

  he  Name of observer  Jerome Leuer (age 10 and Benne Leve
  r (ege 8)

  5e  Occupation of obsorvor  children  ‘

  Address of obsorvor  R/R 1 Hamel, Minnesota

  Te  Placo of obsorvation  As above  - back yerd

  8.  Numbor  of objocts  1

  9. Distance of object from obsorver  a matter of a few feet
  10.  Timo in sight  - N/S  :  ;  5
  ll.  Altitude  rested on ground -
  12,  Speed | y/' 8
  13.  Diroction of flicht After resting on arg it sscendell to a height
  of
  feet and shot off in a northeas  direction
  Ihe.  Pe  spun once, made whistling noise,  shot straight up 20 ft, halted
  and agein made whistling noise.  Maneuvered around tree branches & tele
  15.  Sound whistling noise - like steam whist
  le  :  vires.

  16.  Size  1 ft thick - 2 feet wide

  17.  Color  dull gray

  Shapo  ‘round
  Odor dotectoa  » N/S

  Apparent pinetcunticn  metallic  =
  Exhaust trails . K/S
  Woathor conditions
  n/s

  Effoct on clouds  B/S

  Sketehes  or  photographs  None

  Manner  of disappoaranco  into northeast

  Remarks:  (over)

  bee  AA.k
VAIL

  Informents stated that on 11 Aug 4S between 1200 and 1215 hours, CST,
  Jerome and Benno were playing in the back yerd and noticed en object
  in descent approximately twelve feet from the ground which was descending
  between the two of them.  It settled to the ground gently - much as a
  balloon, Upon hitting the ground the object spun once, made a sort of
  whistling noise, described by the two boys as resembling a steam whistle,
  and then shot straight up into the air approximtely 20 feet, halted
  and again made a whistling noise. The object then shop upwerd to a height
  of about 30 feet, and, in this ascent, maneuvered around tree branches
  and tel  wires, Upon reaching a height of approximately 30 feet
  off in a northeasterly direction. The object approached
  the er ae est.
  from the northw

  The boys described the object as “approximately one foot thick, two feet
  side and round." The object had no windows, wires, or any visible
  ss.  It was a dull gray in color and when it hit the ground,
  it made a slight clanking noise, mech as metal hitting egeinst metal.
  Philip and Mrs Leuer stated the boys were visibly frightened when they
  ren into the house and were afraid to tell what they had seen. Upon
  close questioning, the boys related the above story to them.

  Mr. Leuer advised that hethen had notified Mr. E. R. Sheridan, Postmaste
  at Hemel, Minnesota (who subsequently notified the proper anthorities)
  AGENTS NOTES: Agent noted that the spot where the alleged "flying seucer"
  had landed was approximately 2 feet in diameter and appeared as though
  some heavy object had landed there or had been set down ~ as the ground
  was dental Ok BF MESENE Pn  ee  by
  ee The spot was covered
  a weshtub.

  reason to doubt'“the
  story nf” the boys or of Mi. end Nre, heuer, and
  i be reason had reported the matter to the Federal Burem of Investigation,
  it.  » Minn,
  CHECK=LIST - UNIDENTIFIED FLYING OBJECTS

  idc t # l 163
  Inciden
  Date  22 July 4g
  Time  hour before dark

  Location  Van Nuys, Calif

  Name of observor  loan pl lg ad & wife  :

  Occupation of obsorvor  Ordnance Reserve Officer

  Address  of observor  8531 Variel Ave.,  Canoga Park,  Calif

  Placo  of observation  Van Nuys,  Calif.

  Number of objocts  1

  Distanco  of objoct  from observor  @@@@xf% overhead

 10.  Timo in sight  {fix  about an hour

2%)  Altitudo  great height

224  Speed  W¥/S

13.  Direction of flight  dope the sun from the East  or Wrtaxk

1h.  Tactics  traveled a vertical arc of about 25° or more

15.  Sound  ¥/ s
16.  Sizo  Of weather balloon at 2000 ft

lle  Color  bdluish luminescence like fluorescent lamp which gradually
  changed to orange color at dusk
18.  Shapo  round tending to spherical

19.  Odor dotectod  n/s
  Apparent construction  4N/S

21.  Exhaust trails  4§/S

22.  Woathor conditions  CAVU ground temperature 70-75°
Ba  Effect on clouds  4/S  x
  Sketches or photographs  None  ;

256  Manner of disappearance  snapped off like a lamp when you throw switch

26.  Romarks;  (Over) |
fui  ae

  Object appeared round and probably spherical.  At first looked.
  Similar to weather belloon at about 2000 ft but
  there was no
  characteristic bobbing.  The wind was blowing on the ground with
  fair strength and gusty yet  object was  te steady.  In the
  time it was under observation (about an hour) it traveled thru a
  vertical are of about 25° or mre, After watching the object
  for
  a while the observer concluded that whatever it wes the thing wes
  at great height but not a star,  It had a bluish luminescence like
  & fluores
  lamp and
  cen as the
  t sun set the color gradua
  changed
  llyto an
  orange color at dusk and finally  off like a lamp when the
  swistch
  thrown.  The outl was
  ine  c  and sharp and symetrical
  (no
  fuzziness or blurring), the air clear with visibility unlimited.
  Direction of travel from East directly toward the sun.
  mA  PA  SPL  eS  ' CD ¥  a  | 4  '

  (Sp  VEL tere
  CHECK=LIST = UNIDENTIFIED FLYING OBJECTS
  164
  i  Date  29th June  ;  Incidont # fle

  25  Time  11P. M.

  36  Location  Uniontown, Pa.

  he  Name of observer  MaS  Catherine McDonald

  5.  Occupation of lobsorvor  S/S  swktuwm widow

  6.  Address of observor  38 Kensington Circle, Uniontown

  Te  Placo of observation Uniontown, Pa, = Observer's front porch _

  8.  Numbor  of objocts  three - one at a time

  De  Distance of objoct from observer  3/S

 10.  Timo in sight  W/S

Id,  Altitude  500 ft

12,  Speed  Very fast

13.  Direction of flight  MB

lke  Tactics  spinning vertically on edge

15.  Soumd  none

16.  Sizo N/S

17.  Color  luminous

18.  Shapo  oval

19.  Odor dotocted  None

20.  Apparent construction  §/S - transparent
21.  Exhaust trails  trail of light about 1 yard long

22.  Woathor conditions  stormy and  ,
23.  Effoct on clouds  /) -Light
  N/S  couldskyne:beneath
  flew acv#ss  seen baseite  : - —
  of clouds  |

  Sketches or photographs  vague sketch  -
25.  Manner of disappearance ‘
26.  Romarks :/  (over) |

  Py
Witness saw a luminous, oval-shaped object flying at an altitude of
approx 5,000 ft which was traveling beneath the base of some wkmmmix clouds
from southwest to northeast across the sky.  The weather was stormy and
cloudy and as a second object flew across the sky a flash
  of lightning
could be seen thru it.  It seemed to be transparent.  The objectse(3)
traveled very fest and seemed to just disappear within 10 seconds.  The objects
appeared at approximately five minute intervals.  There was no odor
or sound
  f@ from them.  However, a trail of light about a yard long was
observed.  The objects rolled vertically on their edges and appeared to be
spinning en end across the sky. Witnesses lost sight of the objects
as neighboring houses obstructed their view.

  Witnesses:  Mrs, Margaret Holler
  Police Sergeant Shuh & tims his daughter
  6, Address of cbatee Atlenta
  7 Placo of observation Observation |
  8. Numbor of objocts  1 blue whiteLent
  Qe Distance of object from observer  w/S-
10,  Timo in sight N/S

1l,  Altitude  43/S
12,  Spood  WN/S
  — like shooting ste  |

13. Direction of flight SE turning S ana grining atituae
lh.  Tactics  straight & level & _— altitude

15.  Sound None  X  F

16.  Size  x/s  :  :  bil  i
17. . Color  Dlue-white light  ,  Rae  uae
18.  Shapo,  M/S = object not seen  5

19.  Odor dotectod  x/s
20,  Apparent construction  like shooting star  is
21.  Bxhaust trails  N/S = possibly the blue white light wes the exhaust
22,  Woathor  conditi  2/10 cirrus at 25,000 ft; 1 to 4/10 of lower strato-
  cirrus at5,000 ft.Visibility 12 to 15 miles. Surf wind light & varichhe
23.  Effoct on clouds  ¥/S  2-5 MPH

2h.  Sketches or photographs  None
  >  >  ’  |

25.  Manner of aisappoarance  M/S -  |
  Romarks:  (over)

  see ener ee  ee  eat
Vb0/

  Suxxioceegxlt#, Doyle L. Avery Observer, Atlanta Naval Air Base,
  Chamblee,
  Ga,, while on duty at the observation tower on 26
  July 4g about 2100
  hours sighted a blue-white light traveling southe
  ast from the northeast
  Tt was traveling very fast and maintained a uniform altitud
  e  (undetermined)
  and speed.  It looked like a shooting star except for the fact that
  it
  maintained the same altitude.  While under observation it then a@ppeared
  to gain altitude and then turned sharply to the
  south. The weather  was
  clear end still.  There was no sound,  Shortly after sighting the light
  several residents of the area called and reporte
  d seeing the same cote
  No flights left or arrived at the station after 1910
  hours on 26 July  4g,
  Witnesses of this  who were interviewed made statements
  as follows:  On 26 July 4S they were seated on the lawn of the Georgi
  a
  School of Technology Housing Project at Chamblee, Ga,
  About 2045 hours
  Mrs, John Gall sighted a strange light and called it
  to the attention of
  her companions.  The light @ppeared about the size of a football and
  was traveling southeast on a steady course.
  It was green and faded into a
  silver-colored tail,  The light appeared eppenmird to lose altitude
  slowly
  mach the seme as a plane coming in for a lending,  It appeared to fade
  away in flight as if extinguished,  No sounwa
  d  da,

  Witnesses:  Mr, & Mrs. Harold Shaw
  Mr, Robert Sebring
  Mrs, Jeanne Hill
  Mrs. Myrtle Renfroe
  Mrs. John Gall

  “
  CHECK=LIST - UNIDENTIFIED FLYING OBJECTS  ;

  1.  Date  30 sug
  :
  4s  Incidont# 166
  :

  Tino 20,000 hours or §:00 P. M.
  Be  Location  Los Angeles, Calif.

  he  Nebo of observor  8/Sgt Leroy H, Estes
  5e  Occupation of obsorvor  8/Sgt
  6.  Address of obsorvor  4%  1301 W. Olympic Blvd., Los Angeles

  Te  Placo of Shee acans  1301 W. Olympic Blvd. Los Angeles, Calif. .
  8.  Numbor of objocts  1  ‘
  5  De  Distance of objoct from obsorvor  N/S

  10.  Timo in sight  WN/S

  ‘Ei  Altitude  estimated to be well over 20,000 ft.

  12  Speod  — thought to be well over 700 MPH

  vB.  Direction of flight  Wewe@Ullimt

  1h.  Tactics  mone  -  flew level course

  15.  Bods)  so 'eonmd
  16.  Sizo  Larger than B-29

  1%  Color  silver

  18.  Shapo  V=2 rocket

  19.  Odor dotectod  n/s

  20.  Apparent  construction  rocket - like

  21.  Exhaust trails  blue exhmst trail

  22.  Woathor eonditions  HS  (Céze
  23.  Effoct on clouds  N/s
  ah.  Sketahan or photographs None
  256  Manner of disappearance  n/s
  26.  Romarks:  (over)

  bee  oUt
  br dir
—
  we
Ay
  RAE  PY  FPA  Reo
  E

  SVP iVveENe@ IAL
  CHECK=LIST  = UNIDENTIFIED FLYING OBJECTS

  1.  Date  6 May 1948  Incidont #  167  ©

  Time  0905 GOT

  Be  Location  19° 08' N = 164° 05' E  between Kwajalein Island, Marshall
  Islands and Hickam Field. ,
  he  Name  of  observer  Capt Floyd Barnes

  Occupation of obsorvor  Pilot USAF

  Address  of  observor  Pacific Division,  Milit Air Trans Service

  Placo  of observation  Ahead & above his plane

  Numbor  of objocts  1

  Distance  of object  from obsorver  4 to 5 miles

 10,  Timo in sight  split second

 ll.  Altitudo  10,000 ft

 12.  Spood  -N/§

 3.  Direction of flight  3/8

1h.  Tactics  exploded like a shall

15.  Sound  y/s

16.  Size  n/s

17.  Color  white

18,  Shapo  ball

19.  Odor dotectod ¥/ s
20.  Apparent construction fix "fire"
21.  Exhaust trails  None

  Woathor conditions  5/10 cloud’ coverage
  Effoct on clouds ¥/S
  Sketches  or photographs Bone

  Manner of disappoarance  exploded

  Romarks;  (over)
  se

A large white ball of fire was observed some four to five miles
directly ahead of and slightly above the aircreft.  It was observed
for only a split second and was comparable to the explosion of a shell
There were no streamers or "tails" observed such as usually related
to a meteor or a distress signal. As the aircraft approached the
approximate position where the ball of fire was observed a single white
light was seen on the water surface. However, this disappeared within
a few seconds after sighting because of the existing cloud coverage.
More lights were immediately observed on the water surface some 10 miles
north of the plane's course. It is the opinion of the witness (apt
Barnes) that these were from a surface vessel. Some 10 minutes elapsed
after these lights were observed on the water surface when an aircraft
was sighted flying a reciprocal course (240°) at about 1000 ft below
the observers's aircraft and slightly to the right of the course,
Capt Barnes made numerous attempts to contact this aircraft on Channel "B"
and "C", "VHF" but acknowledgment of his transmission was never teceived,
  ‘  |
  oa

  CHECK=LIST - UNIDENTIFIED FLYING OBJECTS

  1.  Date  20 July 1948 -  Incidont # 168

  2.  Time  1330 local

  3,  Location  Obrechstreet, Arnhem, The Hague
  hl.  Mame of observer  A. D. Otter

  5.  Occupation of obsorvor Ghf.- Investigator of Court of Damage
  6.  Address of observor  Arnheim, The Hague

  7.  Placo of observation  52° 30' N, he 30" EB
  8.  Numbor of objects  +

  9.  Distance of object from observer  4/S
 10.  Timo in sight  43/8
 11.  Altitude  very high
 12.  Speed  _  high speed - comparable to v-2
 13.  Diroction of flight  MS
 1h.  Tactics  n/s
 15.  Sound  Same as V-2

 16,  Size  y/s
 17.  color ¥/S
 18.  Shapo  Aircraft with 2 decks and no wings

 19.  Odor dotected  4/S
 20.  Apparent construction  y/ s
 21.  Exhaust trails N/S
 22,  Woathor conditions  Visibility unlimited - scattered clouds

 23.  Effoct on clouds  4/s
 2h.  Sketches or photographs  None
 256  Manner of disappearance  x/s
 26.  Romarks:  Object appeared to be wingless aircraft with two
decks,  It was traveling at very high altitude and wes seen four times
intermittently thru clowis.  Visibility:  unlimited,
  Placo of observation

  Numbor of objeche  :
wn  Distance of object from observer
  10.  Timo in sight  4§/S

  ll.  Altitudo  N/S
  12,  Speod  W/S
  13.  Diroction of flight  ¥/S
  1h.  Tactics  Arose from behind woods - seemed to unravel
  stance that floated earthward
  156  Sound  s
  16.  Sizo  large

  17.  Color  ‘silver

  16.  Shapo  sphere

  19.  odor dotectoa ¥/S
  Apparent construction  y/s
  21.  Exhaust trails  - silver substance (7)

  Woathor conditions  4/s
  Effoct on clouds y/s  i
  Sketches or photographs  None  ;  ae
  Manner of disappoaranco  Disintegrated in mid-air

  Romarks:  (over)
peIl
  Witness observed a large silve
  r-colored Sphere which seemed
  arive from  to  |
  behind his woods and contirme
  d to floatacross his fern.
  While in flight it seemed to unra  |
  vel a silver substance which
  floated earthward.  While under observation it disintegr  |
  ated in mid-air,
  NOTE:  Witness seemed very conscientiou
  s and sincere while relating this
  incident.  Subject arose while witness wes
  talking to a man from
  this Gommand (MCIAXP) when an airp
  lane chenced to fly overhead.
  INCIDENT SUMMARY SHEET
  (To be filled out and retained in files)

Date of Observation $n or shout 5 May 1948  Incident # 176

Time  of Observation .  2-26.  «20  0  «

Where was sent sbi Sighted . et. —

Observer's Position . Graun@e in village near Adqpgzari, Torkey
  .
(ise. ground, air, control tower, etc.)

Name and Address of Observer .  Mews item .extragted
  from "Yeni Gaheh".

Occupation and/or Hobbies .  ..s  0s  022  eee  e

Attention Attracted to Object (s) By. ....

Number of Object(s) Sighted .y.......

Give: Gf ‘Onjectl a)  4. <a  ais  pees  bse  oe

Color of Object(s) . @himimg-.-----.-

Shape (Sketch if Possible)  .....2.+.+

Nature of Luminosity «  .  66+  es  eee  oe

Estimated Distance of Object from Observer  .

Snead:
  of -Ob4eetle)!<ci3/b,  bs  we  oa  a  ee

Tine $0 SUgHG  edie  ale  >  Mee  we  @  346  se

TROULCE: 6  ae  eRe, ee  Se  oR  WR he. Se  see  oe

Sound Made’ by Objeet(s)  6  os  s6  Se ee  te wae

Direction of Flight of Object(s)  .  2... eee eee

Apparent Construction (Of What Material or Substance)

  and/or Exhaust Trail...

Weather Conditions Existing at the Time  .  .

  in the air
Peculiaritics Noted . Mepleded.  aw

Summary of Tneidont «hen den, Seabilalh mestgiapten "ent. sabe Iatesbul, .
5 Mey isis: Stn atresia
objects like meteors have deen sighted: in various parts the couhtiy. Contta
  ional
  (Attach a Separate Shect if Addit  ae oF is Neede:
  Incident # 170 Cont'd

Some people suggest that  these might be rockets, Information received
from a thorized circles reveals that such a thing  passed over
and was seen to explode in the dtr. Parte of it fell  into  a village
nearby and killed a sheep dog. The thing we found to be a rocket and the
debris will be inspected by axerte. Obers Ind Quote",

Observers say that the rocket which is claimed to have come from the
ego  was flying at en altitude of 200 meters over Adapazari before
it  fell.

According to rumors , it is possible that the rocket is connected with
the “flying disc" experiments being conducted by the Russians at the
station on Mt. Alagoz close to the Bastern frontiers,

Sour
  WA Ankara,
  ce: Turkey, 10 May 1948, Serial S6-l, Eyal PO

Comments Air Attache, Ankara, Turkey has been requested to inve stigate
this incident fully and encourage Turkish General Staff to do likewise,
Whether incident can be confirmed or not Air Attache has been directed
to determine sources for information contaimd in Yeni Sabsh article.

  ~altegGROS- Incident # 170
  INCIDENT SUMMARY SHEET
  (To be filled out and retained in files)

Date of Observation  *S-aag 19S -  -  -  Incident # 171

Time  of Observation .  gymget-  ---  +  -

Where was Object(s) Sighted +Meout-25 len: (29428 niles) “NW 6f"Méstow  °°

Observer's  Position  . @pgypg-  +--+  -  2  2  ee  eee
(ise, ground, air, control tower, etc.)

Occupation and/or Hobbies gmepiean Newspayer Gorrespondent  -  -  -

Attention Attracted to Object (s) By Game inte Line
  of -ségitt:  -

Number
  of Objeet(s) Sighted: $s  s.sce el  es  Se  we  8  ee

Bier of Ojeckle)  iw  sb  «eS  ee  ee  ee  CP  oS  6  eG

Color of Object(s) . Shone brightly  --  -  -

Shape (Sketch if Possible) .  Jemgenarrow
  -

Nature
  ef Luminosity  .:.  .  2  ee  et  ee  8  8

Estimated Distance of Object  from Observer  .  .  2.2

Speed of Object(s)  » higty but mot emessive -  -  +  - -

Time in Sight  .  «see

Tactics
  .. 0s 52.

Sound Made by Object(s)  .  gpm@  -------

Direction of Flight of Object(s) . Southwesé=. Nerthwest-Gérection - - - -

Apparent Construction (Of  + Material or Substance) apparently. metallic

Weather Conditions Existing at  the Time  .  gumay

Peculiarities Noted .winglesse.leng snd marrew-

Summary of Incident . .See-attached sheet

  (Attach a Separate Sheet if Additional Space is
  Incident # 171 Cont'd

About Sunset on 3 Aug 1945, dout 25 kilometers (20miles) northwest of
  erienced American newspaper reporter saw an unidentified
  _—_  attitude. It was long and narrow and proceeded at

  was head, It loskes 1ike ooricid
  from reflected

airship and was so identified by a Russian acquaintance who saw it at
  base Got th  ates 0 cidade ta

NA COMMENT: This object might have been anything. Its speed seems
  insufficient for a guided missile, but it could have been
  either a jet or a conventioml Socmemahe
  as umisual light
  Conditions and fore-shortening frequently give aircraft a
  freakish appearance, The possibility that it wmsa dirigible
  should not be excluded. Reference "4" should not be excluded,

REFERENCE As The upper winds in Russia are not publised but it we noted
  that on the following morning there were high surface winds
  with storm predictions.
